4.75 Streets
4.75.120 Equipment Procedure
4.75.140 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Procedure
4.75.200 Address And Street Name Or Address Change Procedure
4.75.260 Chip Seal Procedure
4.75.280 Crack Seal Policy
4.75.290 Existing Homes Without Curb, Gutter And/Or Sidewalk Policy
4.75.320 Downed Or Damaged Traffic Control Devices Procedure
4.75.390 Graffiti Procedure
4.75.650 Parking Lot Stop Signs Policy
4.75.810 Sidewalk Maintenance Policy
4.75.815 Significant Traffic Change Public Involvement Procedure
4.75.820 Signs, Signals, And Street Lights Policy
4.75.830 Snow Plow Driver Training Policy
4.75.840 Snow Plow Operations Procedure
4.75.850 Snowstorm Parking Ordinance Enforcement Procedure
4.75.870 Street Naming Procedure
4.75.880 Street Sweeping Policy
4.75.950 Weed Abatement Procedure


4.75.120 Equipment Procedure
Crackseal Equipment
Mower And Tractor
Paver And Roller
Street Sweeper
Trackhoe, Backhoe And Mini-Excavator
Truck And Plows





Train employees on the following as applicable before allowing them to work on each piece of equipment or at each facility. Track scheduled maintenance in the annual tasks calendar.

Place a written copy of the appropriate individual procedure in each piece of equipment or facility. If borrowing equipment from other divisions refer to the following division procedures for that equipment.



Power and Light Division Equipment and Facilities Procedures

Wastewater Division Equipment and Facilities Procedures

Water Division Equipment and Facilities Procedures
Fleet Division Equipment and Facilities Procedures

Approved 07/06/2020


Crackseal Equipment
Pre-Trip Inspection

Walk around inspection.

Check all hydraulic lines, air lines, and material lines for cracking or leakage.

Lights and Tire Pressure (visual only)

Check nozzle assembly for wear.

Check pump for proper adjustment.

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs and report to supervisor.

Check and top off all fluids (coolant, def, fuel, hydraulic, and oil).

Load PPE and traffic control equipment.

Fill fuel tanks on equipment and vehicles before lighting burners and heating the pot.
Job Site (Manufacturer’s Operating Instructions)

Warning Lights, PPE, and Traffic Control

Load material from one side at a time.

Keep material installation flat to surface.

Evenly rotate through all stations.

Inspect hoses throughout the day for signs of wear.

Keep material tank full and at proper temperatures.

Once at proper temperature always keep material recirculating through hoses.

Log sealing in tracking application.

Troubleshooting (Manufacturer’s Maintenance Instructions)

For wand clogging check wire connections in handle.

Post-Trip Maintenance (Manufacturer’s Maintenance Instructions)

Check pump packing for even and proper adjustment.

Inspect all piping and valves.

Follow manufacturer maintenance instructions for clearing the hoses of material.

Plug in tank warmers. 

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs and report to supervisor.

Scheduled Maintenance, see Pavement Preservation Operator Annual Tasks Calendar.

Grease necessary components every 40 hours.

Clean hydraulic cooling fan every 40 hours.

Clean excess tar from the machine every 160 hours.

Clean or change air filters every 160 hours.

Mower And Tractor
Pre-trip

Walk around inspection.

Check all hydraulic lines for cracking or leakage.

Lights and Tire Pressure (visual only)

Check mower blades, wheels and deck.

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs and report to supervisor.

Check and top off all fluids (coolant, def, fuel, hydraulic, and oil).

Lock mower in upright position.

Job Site

All warning lights on. 

PPE and Seatbelt

Traffic control if needed.

Inspect hoses throughout the day for signs of wear.

Use low gear  while mowing, 2500 rpms.

Look for hazards in the weeds.

Set parking brake when stopped.

Log mowing in tracking application.

Post-Trip Maintenance

Fuel topped off at end of day.

Check and replace worn cutting blades and wear bars, wheels and deck.

Inspect Pins on 3 point attachment.

Hydraulic fittings and hoses for leaks or signs of wear.

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs and report to supervisor.

Scheduled Maintenance:

Change all necessary fluids

Inspect all grease fittings weekly for wear, grease and replace if needed

Wash weekly.

Paver And Roller
Pre-trip Inspection

Walk around Visual Inspection

Check all Fluids (fuel, oil, def and hydraulic)

Check all hydraulic lines, air lines and rams for cracking or leakage

Check screed and wings for wear and proper adjustment

Clean nozzles and check for proper adjustment

Traffic control equipment

Necessary hand tools needed 

Check all warning lights.

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs. 

Equipment is properly chained down for transport.

Spray no stick solution in hopper and screed before paving

Job Site

Tailgate safety meeting on site before work starts.

Properly set up traffic control

Warning lights are on and functional 

Proper PPE is being worn by crew

Properly setup and secure remotes and wing sensors

Turn on screed warmer and heat to proper temps

Fill water tanks on roller and adjust spray to cover drum

Check for overhead obstacles

Make intentions known to others before operating

Use safety spotter when needed 

Take precautions when paving on any slopes or steep grades

Always leave screed extensions full of material when stopping on new mat 

Never park roller on new mat

Enter completed maintenance information on Ipad 

Post-Trip Maintenance

Top off fluids.

Clean Hopper and apply no stick at the end of day.

Lift hopper, clean excess material and grease conveyor belts

Tracks are cleaned out at the end of shift and adjusted.

Clean all excess material from screed

Check screed wear and adjustment

Grease all necessary components

Clean all excess material from screed

Material sensors cleaned and removed

Drums kept clean and free from asphalt build up

Scheduled Maintenance, see

Change all necessary fluids

Replace worn screed plates if needed

Inspect all hydraulic components for wear

Inspect all grease fittings for wear and replace if needed

Make sure all gauges and hour meters are working properly

Flush all water tanks and clean filters

Winterize and flush all water tanks end of season

Clean and flush tack machine end of season

Street Sweeper
Pre-trip Inspection

Class B CDL with tanker endorsement required for driver.

Walk around inspection.

Check all hydraulic lines, air lines, and suction lines for cracking or leakage.

Check all fluid levels (Fuel, Oil, Water and Def).

Check Brooms for wear

Check all lighting for proper traffic control

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs.

Debris body down and latched.

Check all filters.

Check water fittings for adjustment.

Job Site

Make sure warning lights are on

Water is on and working properly

Broom heads are properly adjusted

Mirrors are properly adjusted

Ipad is on and tracking 

Post-Trip Maintenance

Pressure wash after use.

Clean the debris body out

Clean fan housing

Drain Water

Leave debris tank open for air dry 

Grease all necessary components

Flush all Air and water tanks

Check and clean all filters

Check curtains under head for wear

Clean inside of cab

Scheduled Maintenance, see Annual Tasks Calendar 

Change all necessary Fluids

Inspect fan and housing

Check wear on vacuum housing

Trackhoe, Backhoe And Mini-Excavator
Pre-trip:

Walk around inspection.

Lights & Tire Pressure and tracks are adjusted.

Check all hydraulic lines for cracking or leakage.

Check and top off all fluids (diesel, oil, def and hydraulic).

Teeth and cutting edges are inspected for wear.

Pins on buckets inspected for wear.

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs.

Equipment is properly chained down for transport.

Load PPE and traffic control equipment.

Job Site (Manufacturer’s Operating Instructions)

Tailgate safety meeting at job site.

PPE

Traffic Control

Check bluestakes and overhead lines.

Check to see if brake pedals are pinned.

Do not open windows when in motion.

Extend rear stabilizer arms (outriggers).

Hands off and lock controls if other people are around the backhoe.

Top arm must be extended out when curling the jack hammer.

Set on level ground and lock backhoe when parking.

Post-Trip Maintenance

Top off fuel.

Clean tracks.

Pressure wash when returned to the shop.

Teeth and cutting edges are inspected

Pins on buckets inspected for wear

Clean inside of cab and operators area.

Scheduled Maintenance, see ??

Grease every 7 days.

Change all necessary fluids

Replace worn cutting edges or teeth

Inspect all hydraulic components for wear

Inspect all grease fittings for wear and replace if needed.
Make sure all gauges and hour meters are working properly

Problems & Troubleshooting

Do not open windows while in motion.

Truck And Plows
Pre-trip Inspection

Class B CDL (truck only) Class A CDL Pulling Pups and Transporting equipment. 

Walk around Visual Inspection

Check all Fluids (Fuel, oil, def and hydraulic)

Check all tires for pressure and wear

Check brakes for proper adjustment

Inspect plow, salter mounting and blade wear

Salt spreader is working properly and gate is set at 2” and then raised if needed.

Make sure plow works properly

Check all warning lights are working properly

Inspect mud flaps and tailgate closure

Inspect mounting pins are locked in place. 

Report any damage with an Immediate Action Form.

Fill out Vehicle Service Request for needed repairs.

Job Site

Ipad is on and tracking plowing progress

Turn on warning lights if plowing.

Adjust salt spreader for accurate coverage.

Mirrors are adjusted properly.

Dump bed is down and resting on the frame.

Tailgate is closed and locked. 

Dirt, rocks, asphalt and salt are cleaned off before leaving the work area

Post-Trip Maintenance

Top off all fluids.

Grease all necessary components

Check all hydraulic lines and rams for leaks.

Check plow blade wear.

Salters emptied and cleaned out (wash salt off truck)

Pressure wash after use.

Dump bed is clean and free of debris.

Spray no stick inside of the dump bed before hauling asphalt.

Clean inside of cab 

Scheduled Maintenance, see ??

Change oil if needed

Grease salter chains and components

Tighten plow blades and mounts

Have Mechanics check for proper brake adjustment

4.75.140 Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) Procedure

Listed in order of frequency. Post FAQs on the Streets and Storm Water Questions and Requests Website.

Who is responsible for repairing the driveway over the gutter?
The homeowner is responsible for all driveway repairs. Driveway repairs between the sidewalk and the street require an Excavation Permit.

Who is responsible for sidewalk repair?
The City. Repairs are prioritized and repaired as budgets allow. See online Sidewalk and Gutter Repair Request Form.

When will my street be swept?
Streets are swept at least twice a year. See the online Street Sweeping Request Form.

When will my road be fixed?
We try to do maintenance on each road every 7 to 10 years. Potholes are addressed weekly. See the online Street Repair Request Form.

How do I report a damaged sign?
See the online Street Sign Repair Request Form.

How do I request a stop sign, signal or other sign?
Signs can only be installed if a warrant study shows they are needed. See the online Traffic Sign or Traffic Signal Request Form.

How do I report a street light that is out?
See the online Street Light Repair Request Form.

How do I request a street light?
See the online Traffic Signal Request Form.

Something is blocking the visibility of a sign.
For vegetation see the online Traffic Sign or Tree Trimming Request Form. For all other issues call (801) 804-4550 Extension 3.

Why is my new road being sealed?
Sealing new pavement protects it from sun and water deterioration. Studies show that for every $1 spent doing this $9 is saved in future maintenance costs. The city began sealing new pavement more than 10 years ago. This has made it possible for us to have such good quality pavement even though gas tax funds are very limited.

Electric/hybrid and more fuel efficient vehicles have reduced fuel consumption and reduced gas tax money per vehicle significantly. This has occurred at the same time that we have seen heavy increases to the costs of road maintenance.


Approved 6/30/2021

4.75.200 Address And Street Name Or Address Change Procedure

Notify the following when there is a property address or street name or street address change:


Spanish Fork Post Office
Leslee Adamson
(801) 794-1197
leslee.n.adamson@usps.gov
CenturyLink
Korby Whiting
(801) 356-6977
korby.whiting@centurylink.com
Questar
Gwen Monson
(801) 324-3731
Gwen.Monson@questar.com
Spanish Fork Utilities
Cindy Stone
(801) 804-4506
cstone@spanishfork.org
Utah County Assessor’s Office
Clarissa Reeve
(801) 851-8287
clarissr@utah.gov
Utah County Roads and Addresses
Marye Jane Kiser
(801) 851-8644	
maryek@utah.gov
Utah County Assessor’s Office
Nancy Waugh
(801) 851-8224
nancyw.ucadm@state.ut.us
Utah Valley 911
Noreen Stone
(801) 794-3942
nstone@utahvalley911.org
Spanish Fork Business Licensing
Kim Brenneman
(801) 804-4580
kbrenneman@spanishfork.org

Approved June 24, 2019





4.75.260 Chip Seal Procedure
Preparation:
Clean and dry areas where materials are to be applied.
Apply temporary covers to manholes and catch basins, as needed, to prevent oil and materials from getting inside of them.
Process:
Apply emulsion at recommended rate.
Spread chips closely behind emulsion distributor, slowly such that the chips do not roll when they hit the surface.
Roll chips. Rollers follow closely behind the chip spreader. Roll entire surface at least twice.
Clean-up:
Remove all loose aggregate from the roadway.
Excessive asphalt applications and spills are removed with shovels and scraping tools.
Properly dispose of, or recycle, any waste material that has been swept and scraped up by taking it to the landfill, or other designated location.


Approved April 24, 2018





4.75.280 Crack Seal Policy

All pavement shall be crack sealed once every 8 years, if possible. Progress shall be documented in the Crack Seal Dashboard.

Approved by Administrative Order 06-16 - October 10, 2016





4.75.290 Existing Homes Without Curb, Gutter And/Or Sidewalk Policy

If an existing home does not have curb, gutter, or sidewalk, the Public Works Director may authorize, if the budget allows, the payment of 1/2 the cost to install them, if the homeowner is willing to pay the other half. If the home is on a corner lot, 3/4 of the cost may be paid for by the City. The City would pay all costs to design, manage construction, and pave to the gutter. The homeowner is responsible to pay all landscaping costs.


HISTORY
Approved by Other Administrative Order 06-22 Public Works on 8/8/2022

4.75.320 Downed Or Damaged Traffic Control Devices Procedure

Whenever any employee sees or hears about a downed or damaged traffic control device he or she should immediately report it to the streets on-call person by calling (801) 804-4440. The Streets Division will then immediately put up temporary controls until the traffic control device is repaired or replaced.
 
Approved March 2, 2017





4.75.390 Graffiti Procedure
Response.  All graffiti is reported to the police at (801) 804-4700 or www.spanishfork.org/graffiti. The police files a report and notifies the following.
Building Graffiti	

Buildings Crew

    Cody Hanks

     Ken Bell

     Kellen Douglas

	




(801) 361-3043

(801) 735-8679

(801) 874-4781


Non-Building Graffiti	Streets On-Call	




(801) 804-4440 Ext 3




Images of graffiti other than those stored in the police files shall be saved in the Spanish Fork City Vandalism Album.

Streets crew has the following graffiti response equipment and materials. 

Base color paint for masonry walls.
Pressure Washer
Battery Paint Sprayer
 Brushes
 Sponges
Digital Paint Swatch
Wipeoff Graffiti Remover by Sunrise

Buildings crew has the following graffiti response equipment and materials.
PPG Speedhide Block Filler
PPG Pitt-Glaze WB1
Dunn-Edwards Aristoshield Interior/Exterior Paint
Prosoco Sure Klean Weather Seal Blok-Guard & Graffiti Control WB 6 Weather Seal
Paint Sprayer
Pressure Washer
Wipeoff Graffiti Remover by Sunrise 
A social media outreach campaign to report graffiti shall be initiated by the Public Works every July. See the Annual Calendar for Graffiti Reporting. 

Prevention. The following measures will be taken to prevent graffiti. 
If You Feel Like You Are Being Watched - You Are signs shall be placed at every at-risk park with graffiti concerns.
Prosoco Sure Klean Weather Seal Blok-Guard & Graffiti Control WB 6 Weather Seal shall be applied to all at risk unpainted exposed masonry and reapplied every 10 years. Application dates shall be tracked on the Graffiti Seal App.
This will be required for new development in the 4.39.65.050 Masonry.
This will be required for new projects in the Design Procedure.
LED facility lighting shall be left on when dark. Other facility lighting until 2:00 AM.
Facilities repeatedly targeted with graffiti will be added to the Camera Install List.
The Design Procedure shall include the following.
Review with the Owner the need for camera systems.
Review with the SFCN/IS IT Manager the design for the camera system if needed.
Design lighting for areas at-risk for graffiti to be LED and on while dark.
Apply Prosoco Sure Klean Weather Seal Blok-Guard & Graffiti Control WB 6 Weather Seal to at risk unpainted masonry with installation.
Update the Graffiti Seal App.
The police department will produce a video that includes a narrative on graffiti to show the students each year.
Prosecution. The following measures will be taken to apprehend graffiti suspects. 
If video footage is available police may post on Facebook or request help from the school district to identify suspects.
The following sign shall be placed at every at-risk park with graffiti concerns: “Report Graffiti QR Code Sign”. QR Code Link:  www.spanishfork.org/graffiti.
Normally graffiti offenders will be charged according to the cost to repair the graffiti.

Approved September 5, 2023




4.75.650 Parking Lot Stop Signs Policy

Stop signs regulating traffic exiting parking lots are the responsibility of the parking lot owner to purchase, maintain, and replace.




HISTORY
Approved by Other Administrative Order 06-22 Public Works on 8/8/2022

4.75.810 Sidewalk Maintenance Policy
Inspections. All sidewalks shall be inspected for hazards at least once every 5 years. Track inspections in the Concrete Inspection Dashboard. All hazards and repairs shall be documented in the Concrete Maintenance Dashboard.
Reported Hazards. When a sidewalk hazard is reported, the hazard shall be logged, inspected, and painted for safety awareness within two working days of the report. Hazards will be assigned a priority for repair and will be repaired based on the priority given it compared with other sidewalk hazards throughout the City, and based on budget constraints.

Concrete Lifting. Wear safety glasses, a full face shield, long sleeve shirt, and pants. All vehicles and trailers must be moved out of the work zone and fences, mailboxes, and other fixed objects in the work zone must be covered and protected.
Shared Cost Sidewalk Replacement. If a resident desires to replace sidewalk immediately then the City will reimburse concrete material costs only if work is properly inspected.





Revised by Administrative Order 04-21 - June 14, 2021

HISTORY
Amended by Other Administrative Order 08-22 Public Works on 8/19/2022

4.75.815 Significant Traffic Change Public Involvement Procedure
Complete related studies and create a good concept of proposed traffic change.
Go over significant traffic change with the city council in a work session. 
Invite residents immediately affected by significant traffic change to a special traffic safety committee meeting as early in the process as possible.
Notify the following of the meeting.
City Manager
Assistant City Manager
PIO
Traffic Safety Committee
Residents immediately affected by the change.

Notify residents with a Traffic Change Door Hanger with a a QR code and link to the Construction Map and a QR code to a Public Feedback Form for the project.

Approved: June 19, 2024

4.75.820 Signs, Signals, And Street Lights Policy
Annual Inspections. An annual sign inspection will be conducted each year during daylight hours beginning in July. An annual sign and streetlight inspection shall be conducted each year during nighttime hours beginning in January. All problems shall be documented and scheduled to be repaired. Signs on city streets at UDOT intersections shall be replaced by the City when needed.

Reported Sign, Signal, and Street Light Problems. Reported sign, signal, and street light problems shall be logged in the online citizen request program. If a reported sign or signal problem could be a traffic hazard, such as a downed stop sign, the City will immediately respond and correct, if possible, and otherwise mitigate the hazard.

Children Warning Signs. Children warning signs will only be installed for autistic, deaf or blind children. Requests must be submitted with a certificate from a doctor that the child is autistic, deaf or blind. The certificate shall indicate the child’s name, age, and address.

The City will install the sign and it will be left in place until the child is 17 or until the child moves. Requester shall be required to notify the City when the child moves.

School Name Street Signs. If a school would like to name a street after itself in some form, the name and street must be approved by the City Engineer. If approved, the proposed name will not be the street’s official name, but the City will allow street signs with the proposed name and school logo to be installed with the official street name sign.

The proposed street name signs shall be ordered and paid for by the school (requester). Signs shall be double sided, 8 by 36 inches and in the school colors. The City will install the signs.  When signs need to be replaced, it shall be the school’s (requester’s) responsibility to pay for the new sign.

Revised by Administrative Order 05-21 - June 23, 2021





4.75.830 Snow Plow Driver Training Policy

Snowplow operators shall have a minimum of four hours of ride along and ten hours driving training with an experienced snowplow operator. Training hours will be tracked in the Snowplow Driver Log and the New Hire Checklist.

Approved by Administrative Order 03-19 - May 3, 2019


4.75.840 Snow Plow Operations Procedure

Follow the following procedures.


Store de-icing material under a covered storage area, or other approved storage method that prevents runoff from entering the storm drain.
Inspect equipment for any leaks.
Calibrate spreaders to minimize the amount of de-icing material used and still be effective.
Park trucks loaded with de-icing material inside when possible.
Sweep up all spilled de-icing material around loading area.
Only wash out vehicles and equipment in approved washout area.

Revised June 25, 2019





4.75.850 Snowstorm Parking Ordinance Enforcement Procedure

Public Works Administrative Coordinator posts on Facebook and sends the following text/email citywide before the first forecasted snowstorm.

“This is a citywide courtesy notice. City ordinance prohibits parking on the street during and immediately after a snowstorm. The City is often unable to safely plow streets until all parked vehicles and trailers are removed. It is illegal to park anything along a street during any season for longer than 48 hours. During this winter season please pay attention to the forecast and remove vehicles and trailers from the road.”

Public Works Administrative Coordinator post the following on Facebook before every forecasted significant snowstorm.

“SNOWSTORM WARNING: City ordinance prohibits parking on the street during and immediately after a snowstorm. The City is unable to safely plow your street until all parked vehicles and trailers are removed.”

Attach the following links:  
Municipal Code 10.16.040 Snow Removal
Spanish Fork Snow Removal Information Website

The following will be done for streets that were unsafe to plow because of parked vehicles and trailers.


Snow plow driver will mark the street in the Snow Plow App.
Public Works Administrative Coordinator will check the Roads Not Plowable Map and send the following auto-call/text/email to the street.

“The City was unable to safely plow your street because of vehicles or trailers parked along the street. Drivers will attempt again to plow the street within the next 48 hours. Offending vehicle and trailer owners will be subject to fines.”

Public Works Administrative Coordinator will text the map of unsafe streets to the following.



Cory Pierce

	(385) 225-6295

Jamie Chappel	(801) 921-9854
Jack Urquhart	(801) 473-3243
Cory Slaymaker	(801) 361-6599
Blake Otteson	(801) 369-7592
Cody Harris	(801) 400-8982
Cy Dennison	(385) 448-7780
Lance Rudd	(801) 706-9683
Cade Harding	(801) 367-5136
Phil Nielsen	(801) 921-9916
Kurt Ballantyne	(801) 400-1187
Addy Gillies	(801) 717-0276
Marlo Smith	(801) 921-9884


Approved October 19, 2020
4.75.870 Street Naming Procedure

Generally, streets should not be named, only name streets when it is impossible to give a numbered address. If a street name is necessary then the Address Committee must be contacted to review and determine the street name. The Address Committee consists of:


Police Officer in Charge of Patrols
Utility Billing Clerk
GIS Administrator


Approved June 24, 2019





4.75.880 Street Sweeping Policy

All pavement shall be swept twice annually, if possible. Progress shall be documented in the mapping system. A progress map of street sweeping completed shall be emailed to the Public Works Director in January and July.

Approved by Administrative Order 06-16 - October 10, 2016


4.75.950 Weed Abatement Procedure

Weeds areas marked for Streets in the Weed and Lawn Maintenance Web App Viewer shall be mowed each year at the following times.


May 1st to May 31st
July 1st to July 31st
September 1st to September 31st


Approved December 13, 2021
