4.39 Policy Construction Standards
4.39.10 General Provisions
4.39.20 Improvement And Design Requirements
4.39.25 Inspection And Testing
4.39.30 Contractor Requirements
4.39.35 Earthwork And Trenches
4.39.40 Drinking Water
4.39.45 Pressurized Irrigation
4.39.50 Sanitary Sewer
4.39.55 Storm, Land And Groundwater Drains
4.39.60 Streets And Pavements
4.39.65 Portland Cement Concrete And Masonry Work
4.39.70 Electrical Service
4.39.75 Communication Service
4.39.90 Landscaping
4.39.95 Irrigation Sprinkler Systems

HISTORY
Amended in its entirety by Ord. Ordinance 11-2024 An Ordinance Approving Amendments to the Construction Standards on 7/1/2024

4.39.10 General Provisions
4.39.10.010 Improvement Requirements
4.39.10.020 Definitions


4.39.10.010 Improvement Requirements
General.
This policy defines the general requirements for improvements to be built by the Developer, sub-divider, owner, or Contractor for all types of construction, (to include residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, governmental and professional office). All improvements which are in areas that are or will become public rights-of-way and/or easements, or that will be under the responsibility of a homeowners association shall meet the requirements of these specifications.
The improvements shall include all street improvements in front of all lots and along all dedicated streets to a connection with existing improvements of the same kind and to the boundaries of the development. Layout must provide for future extension to adjacent development and to be compatible with the contour of the ground for proper drainage. All drinking water, sanitary sewer, pressurized irrigation, electric, communication, storm, land or groundwater drains and any other buried utilities or conduits shall be installed to the boundary lines of the Subdivision or development.
Improvements Made Before Recording.
No improvements shall be commenced until a final plat is approved and inspection fees paid.

Variations, Substitutions, Exceptions and Changes.
Any variation, substitution or exception from the standards in this policy must be authorized in writing by the City Engineer. Product options and substitutions must meet the requirements of APWA 01 20 00 (Product Options and Substitutions). Any item of construction not covered in these standards must have plans and specifications approved by the City Engineer. Requests for changes to the Construction Standards shall be made in writing to the City Engineer. These requests will be reviewed during revision process conducted in conjunction with the APWA revisions.

Protection of Existing Improvements.
The Contractor shall be responsible for the protection of any existing improvements on public or private property at the start of work or placed there during the progress of the work. Existing improvements shall include but are not limited to permanent surfacing, curbs, ditches, driveways, culverts, fences, walls and landscaping. Any surface improvements damaged as a result of construction shall be restored or replaced to an equal or better condition than before. This shall be accomplished in a timely manner.

Maintaining Existing Road Surfaces.
The Contractor shall be responsible for maintaining existing road surfaces suitable for travel by the public. The Contractor shall be responsible for all dust and mud control and all claims and damages resulting from failure to maintain the construction area.

New Materials.
Only new materials may be used during construction unless otherwise authorized by the City Engineer.

City Furnished Products.
If the City furnishes any products the Contractor shall conform to requirements and specifications of APWA 01 64 00 (Owner-furnished Products).

Product Delivery and Handling.
The Contractor shall conform to the requirements and specifications of APWA 01 65 00 (Product Delivery and Handling).

Product Storage and Protection.
The Contractor shall conform to requirements and specifications of APWA 01 66 00 (Product Storage and Protection).

Other Specifications and Standards.
City standards and ordinances shall supersede all other Standards whenever they conflict.



4.39.10.020 Definitions
AASHTO.
The American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, is a standards setting body which publishes specifications, test protocols and guidelines which are used in highway design and construction throughout the United States.

APWA.
The Utah Chapter, American Public Works Association Manual of Standard Specifications, latest edition with all approved supplements. These standard specifications can be obtained at http://utah.apwa.org/. When sections of the APWA manual are referred to in these standards, the Contractor shall also adhere to the requirements and specifications of all related sections referred to by the section of the APWA manual. 

AWWA.
The American Water Works Association Standards, latest edition.

City.
The City of Spanish Fork, Utah.

City Engineer.
The City Engineer for Spanish Fork City or authorized representative.

City Planner.
The person appointed by the City to be the City Planner.

Civil Engineer.
A person licensed with the State of Utah to practice as a professional engineer.

County.
Utah County, Utah.

Construction Plans.
Construction plans include drawings showing all required improvements for a development showing their location, size, grade, and elevations.

Customer.
A person or company receiving service from any City utilities.
Contractor.
A person or company hired by the City or a Developer to perform construction in or for the City, having appropriate state licenses to perform said work.

Council or City Council.
The governing body of the City.

Cul-de-sac.
A permanent dead end street.

Development Review Committee.
The Development Review Committee (DRC) of Spanish Fork City.

Developer.
Person, persons, partnership or corporation developing residential, commercial or industrial property.

Power & Light Division.
The division of City government responsible for the City owned Electric and Communication utilities.

Final Plat.
An original recordable plat drawn on mylar in a form approved by the City and County, showing all lots, streets, utility easements, etc.

Floodplain.
That area designated on the most recent Flood Insurance Rate Map for the City of Spanish Fork, prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, as a flood plain as amended.

General Plan.
The general plan document as approved by the city council.

Improved Lot.
A lot which has all the improvements required in the Subdivisions ordinance.

Improvements.
Includes roads, streets, curb, gutters, sidewalks, grading, landscaping, water and sanitary sewers systems, irrigation systems, drainage systems, power and communication systems, fences, public facilities, trees or other requirements by the chapter or by the City.

Land Surveyor.
A person licensed with the State of Utah to practice as a licensed land surveyor.

Lot.
A parcel or tract of land within a subdivision which is or may be occupied by a building or structure and the accessory buildings, structures or uses customarily incident thereto, including such open spaces as are arranged and designed to be used in connection with the building according to the zone within which the lot is located.

LID.
Low Impact Development is an approach to land development that works with nature to manage storm water as close to its source as possible. LID employs principles such as preserving and creating natural landscape features, minimizing effective imperviousness to create functional and appealing site drainage that treats storm water as a resource rather than a waste product.

MUTCD.
The Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices defines the standards used by road managers nationwide to install and maintain traffic control devices on all public streets, highways, bikeways, and private roads open to public traffic.

MUE.
A Municipal Utility Easement acquired by the city for city utilities.

NEC.
The National Electrical Code is a United states standard for the safe installation of electrical wiring and equipment.

NESC.
The National Electrical Safety Code establishes rules which govern: a) methods of grounding; b) installation and maintenance of electric-supply stations and equipment, of overhead supply and communication lines, and of underground and electric-supply and communications lines; and c) operation of electric-supply and communication lines and equipment.

Offsite Facilities.
Facilities outside of the boundaries of the subdivision or development site which are designated and located to serve the needs of the subdivision or development or adjacent property, usually lying between a development and existing facilities.

Onsite Facilities.
Facilities installed within or on the perimeter of the subdivision or development site.

OSHA.
The Occupational Safety and Health Administration is the main federal agency charged with the enforcement of safety and health legislation.

Parcel of Land.
A contiguous area of land in the possession or ownership of one entity with one tax identification number.

Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission of Spanish Fork City.

Preliminary Plat.
A map or plat of a proposed subdivision or development with accompanying supplementary documents.

Public Utility Easements.
The easements required to place public utilities across any privately owned property.

ROW.
A public Right of Way is a strip of land that is granted, through an easement or other mechanism, for transportation purposes, such as for a trail, driveway, rail line or highway. A right-of-way is reserved for the purposes of maintenance or expansion of existing services with the right-of-way.

SFCN.
The Spanish Fork Community Network.

Site Plan.
A plan for a commercial, industrial, institutional, governmental or planned residential development in the City.

Storm Water Discharge.
A Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (UPDES) Storm Water permit may be required before any ground disturbance or construction activities. The purpose of the permit is to prevent storm water runoff from washing pollutants into local surface waters such as streams, rivers, or lakes.

Streets.
A thoroughfare which has been dedicated and accepted by the City Council, which the City has acquired by prescriptive right or which the City owns, or is offered for dedication on an approved recorded final plat. For further explanation see the streets section.

Subdivision.
Any parcel of land that is divided, re-subdivided or proposed to be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, or other division of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions. A subdivision includes (1) the division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise and testacia, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument; and (2) divisions of land for all land for all residential and nonresidential and nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.

Utilities.
Includes drinking water lines; irrigation lines; sanitary sewer; storm, land and groundwater drains; gas lines; electric power lines; cable television and telephone lines; underground conduits; and junction boxes and all appurtenances to the above.

Zoning Ordinance.
The comprehensive zoning ordinance adopted by the city council as Title 15, Part 3 of the Spanish Fork Municipal Code.



4.39.20 Improvement And Design Requirements
4.39.20.010 General
4.39.20.015 Specialized Engineering
4.39.20.020 Construction Plans
4.39.20.030 Street Improvements
4.39.20.040 Utility Improvements
4.39.20.050 Airport Improvements


4.39.20.010 General
Easements.
Developer shall provide municipal utility easements (MUEs) for all utility extensions through private property and for 10 feet along public right-of-ways. Developments other than single family home developments shall provide 10 foot MUEs along all property lines. If setbacks are less than 10 feet then MUEs shall be the extent of the setback. Single family lots shall have 10 foot public utility easements along public right-of-ways or streets and not necessarily along the other property lines unless a utility is planned there.

Traffic Control.
A traffic control plan shall be submitted to the City prior to construction that impacts public streets and traffic. All traffic control shall comply with APWA 01 55 26 (Traffic Control) and the MUTCD.
Survey.
The alignment of the side property lines for each lot in a subdivision shall be marked in the top back of curb with a lot line witness marker that meets the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 10 (Boundary Markers and Survey Monuments). Developer shall provide survey bench marks and monuments as required by the City Surveyor.
All property corners shall be marked with a rebar corner marker that meets the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 10 (Boundary Markers and Survey Monuments). Corners must be marked before acceptance of a subdivision's improvements by the City. The rebar must be offset 2 to 4 inches by a steel tee post four feet out of the ground on the property line alignment.
Temporary Controls.
Temporary controls such as a noise, dust, mud, surface water, ground water, pollution and erosion controls shall be made. Controls shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 01 57 00 (Temporary Controls). Pumping groundwater into the sanitary sewer system is prohibited. Ground water and/or surface water must be kept on the construction site. If either leave the site by any manner, additional temporary controls must be implemented to protect the storm water drain system. A Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Notice of Intent (NOI) may also be required. See Spanish Fork City SWPPP Requirements on the public website for more information.
Landfill, Construction Debris or Garbage.
No buildings, paved parking lots, paved roads, curb, gutter, sidewalks are allowed to be located over landfills, construction debris, or garbage.





4.39.20.015 Specialized Engineering
General.
Any specialized engineering beyond the expertise of city staff such as, but not limited to, geotechnical, traffic, environmental, hillside, floodplain, bank stabilization and erosion control will require the review of qualified consultants. All review costs shall be paid by the property owner/developer.
Hillside Geotechnical Engineering.
Any development or land disturbance of any kind that meet requirements in Title 15.4.16.170.C shall be required to submit a site specific geotechnical report including a slope stability analysis. Close proximity to a steep slope shall be defined as the horizontal distance from the slope which is less than or equal to the vertical distance from the crest of the slope to the toe of the slope. The geotechnical report shall include sufficient subsurface exploration, laboratory testing and geotechnical engineering analysis to render design level geotechnical recommendations and opinions regarding slope stability and required mitigation to protect planned or future development above and below the slope(s) from earth deformations and other adverse soil or geologic conditions.

All work completed in connection with the site specific geotechnical report shall be performed by an experienced geotechnical engineering firm and under the direct supervision and direction of a professional geotechnical engineer properly licensed in the state of Utah.

The scope of work described below and in Title 15.4.16.170.D is considered the minimum requirement for the geotechnical investigation. The geotechnical firm (Consultant) shall use their experience and engineering judgement in conjunction with the minimum requirement outlined below to develop an appropriate site-specific geotechnical scope of work and report.
Field Explorations.
Prior to commencing field explorations the geotechnical engineer shall review available geologic maps, aerial photographs and other pertinent literature to develop an understanding of the site and its geologic setting.

Locate utilities within areas of explorations by notifying the appropriate local one-call state utility locate service. Independent private utility locates may be required for utilities not identified by the local one-call service. Complete subsurface explorations in accordance with the minimum requirements outlined in this section.


Single residential building lot - complete at lease one (1) soil boring.
Residential subdivisions - complete at least one (1) soil boring in every proposed lot.

Boring(s) shall be located within close proximity to slope crests so as to render a representative soil profile of the slope for analysis. The boring(s) shall extend to a minimum depth of 15 feet below the tow of slope. For example, if a 30-foot tall slope is being evaluated the boring shall extend at least 45 feet below the top of the slope. Borings shall extend through existing fill materials so that at least one sample is collected in native soil. Adjust boring depths for anticipated site development cuts and fills and for known soil conditions.

The geotechnical shall consider past property use and location. Additional soil borings shall be planned for sites located in areas that are known or suspected to have had previous slope deformations or seeps, springs or other adverse features. Special attentions shall be given to identifying, to the extend practical, the presence and extent of existing fill.

Collect a minimum of four (4) soil samples in the upper ten (10) feet of the profile and at intervals of five (5) feet thereafter. Adjust sampling intervals to include major changes in soil layering. Collect a sufficient number of undisturbed samples in fine-grained soils to properly assess strength and consolidation properties. Perform split barrel sampling in granular soils. Field blow counts should be corrected for energy and depth and presented as Standard Penetration Test (SPT) blow counts on the soil boring logs.

Field classify encountered soil in accordance with the American Standard for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and Unified Classification Systems (USCS).

Borings encountering bedrock shall be extended a minimum of 5 feet into the bedrock. Rock coring equipment shall be used where practical to aid in assessing rock properties. Where cores are collected, Rock Quality Designator (RQD) values should be presented on the boring logs.


Laboratory Testing. Samples collected in the field shall be properly packaged to avoid disturbance or freezing and transported to an accredited geotechnical and materials testing laboratory for further observation and testing. Laboratory testing shall be performed under the direction of a Utah licensed professional geotechnical engineer and in accordance with appropriate ASTM standards. At a minimum laboratory testing shall include the following:
Sieve analysis - determine grain size distribution and percent fines (minus 200 sieve)
Atterberg tests - classification, indexing, shrinkage and expansiveness
In-place density
Natural moisture content
Shear strength - Direct Shear and/or Triaxial Shear

Additional laboratory testing may be required to address site conditions and provide necessary engineering properties for analysis. The geotechnical engineer shall use his professional judgement and local experience to determine an appropriate scope for laboratory testing.

Laboratory testing results shall be presented in the Geotechnical Report, on individual summary sheets in the report appendix or on the boring logs.
Geotechnical Report Requirements. The result of the field and laboratory programs shall be evaluated by a Utah registered professional geotechnical engineer. Based on the results of their evaluation, an engineering report shall be prepared that details the results of the testing performed, provides logs of the borings and a diagram of the site/boring layout and provides geotechnical recommendations and information regarding the following:
General suitability of the site for the planned development
Recommend precautions and limitations
Subsurface exploration procedures
Soil and rock conditions encountered
Groundwater depth during and after drilling
Geologic setting
Geologic hazards
Slope stability including provisions, recommendations and designs to mitigate the effects of unstable slopes and other geologic hazards that may adversely impact planned developments above and below the slope(s)
Special design and construction provisions for footings or foundations near steep slopes, including type and depth of foundation system and set back distance from slopes
Surface water runoff control and drainage
Subsurface drainage
Site grading and earthwork requirements, as appropriate

Detailed individual boring logs and graphical cross sections summarizing soil/rock profiles and slope stability analysis and results shall be included in the geotechnical report. The logs shall contain sufficient detail to render a clear description of the soil stratigraphy, soil descriptions and classifications, SPT blow counts, sample locations and depths, groundwater depths and appropriate laboratory test results. Individual boring logs shall include a description of the boring location, exploration equipment used, relative or actual elevation, date of exploration and other pertinent information relative to the field exploration. The cross sections shall contain sufficient detail to render a clear description of the slope stability analysis results and any mitigation measures required. The cross sections shall contain soil profile data and a summary of engineering properties and parameters used in the analysis for each significant soil/rock layer.

The final geotechnical report shall bear the geotechnical engineer's stamp and seal. One (1) electronically submitted PDF copy of the report shall be delivered to the City of Spanish Fork within sufficient time for review and comment. The City will have the report reviewed by its own geotechnical engineer. The cost of that review will be borne by the applicant.
Stream Bank Stabilization.
In order to protect future development adjacent to the Spanish Fork River from flooding and natural erosion hazards, all future development that borders the river within the. boundaries of Spanish Fork City shall complete a natural hazards analysis for flooding, erosion, and groundwater hazards. A technical report must be prepared by a professional engineer, registered in the State of Utah, to document that analysis. The analysis and report shall, at a minimum, include the following items:
A figure with a recent aerial photograph for a base map showing the study area and the FEMA Special Flood Hazard Areas. The study area shall include the proposed lot(s) or parcel(s) that are to be developed and 1,000 feet upstream and 1,000 feet downstream (measured along the centerline of the river) of the proposed development.
A proposed site plan that shows the location of proposed structures, or building envelopes, adjacent to the river.
A review of historic river channel locations in the area. Use the following items, if available:
Historical aerial photographs
Original government cadastral survey of the area
Historic quadrangle maps
Recent aerial photographs and maps.

Include a figure in the report that documents the results of this analysis.
An assessment of channel migration and erosion trends in the area.
Provide a figure that shows one or more typical field surveyed channel cross sections of the river channel adjacent to the proposed development. Comment on banks slopes, material on channel bottom, and vegetation.
Average anticipated flow velocities in the channel adjacent to the development associated with flood events that have a 10-, 2- and 1- percent chance of occurring in any given year.
A field assessment of the condition and stability of the existing channel in the study area, on both sides of the river. This field assessment shall primarily be a visual assessment completed by a professional with a member of Spanish Fork Engineering Department staff in attendance. It shall include, but not be limited to:
soil types;
erodibility of the channel bed and banks;
general condition of the channel and banks;
an assessment of the condition and percent cover of existing vegetation on the channel banks and in the floodplain;
an assessment of any existing erosion control measures that exist in the area;
Identification of any erosion hazards that need to be mitigated.
Identify maintenance easements needed to access the channel.
Provide and overall "professional opinion" based on previous experience, professional judgement, and technical analyses of any existing erosion and flood hazards that could potentially endanger proposed structures, utilities or infrastructure and recommend means to mitigate those hazards.

In addition to the erosion hazard assessment, the following issues shall also be addressed in this report:

Generally identify how storm water runoff from the proposed development will be managed. If storm water will be discharged into the Spanish Fork River, confirm that backwater from the river will not back up into the pipe and cause flooding in the newly developed area during a 1-percent annual chance flood.
Assess whether the area is suitable for basements based on anticipated groundwater levels during the 1-percent annual chance flood.
Historic groundwater levels in the area (if any).
If a ground water drain is proposed as park of the development, assess how it will function during the 1-percent annual chance flood.
Provide a certified statement from a professional geotechnical engineer regarding whether the proposed area is suitable for the construction of basements based on the assumption that the river will be conveying the 1-percent annual chance flood.




4.39.20.020 Construction Plans
General.
The following instructions are for the purpose of standardizing the preparation of construction plans to obtain uniformity in appearance, clarity, size, and style. Plans and designs shall meet the standards defined in the specifications and drawings hereinafter outlined. All drawings and/or prints shall be clear and legible and conform to good engineering and drafting room practice.

Include the following in construction plans for all developments:

A copy of the proposed final plat or site plan;

A plan view of the entire project showing all utilities, roads, and appurtenances;

Plan and profiles of all storm, land and groundwater drains, sanitary sewer, curb, gutter, and irrigation;

Detail drawings of street cross sections according to the standard drawings and other detail drawings only for items not found in the City standard drawings. Detail drawings shall be to scale and completely dimensioned and described. All items shall be designed in accordance with minimum requirements established by the City Construction Standards;

Complete plans for all off-site work to be done in conjunction with the project;

A stamp and signature of a Civil Engineer licensed in the state of Utah on each plan sheet, detail drawing, and design sheet;

Engineer's take off quantities and cost estimate for all construction work related to the project;

Plan Sheets.
Include the following on each plan sheet:

North Arrow;

A standard engineering scale between 1 inch equals 10 feet and 60 feet. A scale of 1 inch equals 100 feet may be used on the plan view of the entire project if necessary to fit project on one sheet;

Title block along right side of sheet with title of drawing in lower right corner. Include in title block:

Name of subdivision and plat or site plan;

Name of city;

Specific type of drawing (construction drawings, plan view, plan and profiles, off-site construction, detail drawings);

Name of engineer, surveyor, or firm preparing drawings;

Drawing number of total number of drawings;

Also include the following with profile drawings:

Vertical scale of 1 inch equals 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6 feet;

Reference to the vertical datum. The 1929 or 1988 North American Vertical Datum (NAVD29 or NAVD88) shall be used for all elevation data;

Benchmark location and elevation for checking construction;

Stationing aligned from plan view with the profile view;

Existing ground, ditch, and utility lines;

A sheet index on each sheet showing profiled area in relation to the overall project.

Electric and Communication Plans.
Construction plans must include the location of all existing poles, transformers, secondary junction boxes, sectionalizers, overhead electrical wire and overhead communication cable. After plans are updated to meet the approval of the Development Review Committee, the Developer shall submit a computer aided design (CAD) file of the plans to they Energy Division. CAD file must be in a dwg or dxf format. Thereafter the energy division will design and make available plans for the proposed electric and communication lines for the development.

Street, Parking Lot, and Driveway Plans.
Include the following for curb, gutter, storm, land and groundwater drains, drainage structures, sidewalks, and street surfacing plans:

Plan and profile for top back of curb for each side of the street. Label profile line as top back of curb for both sides of street if it is the same;

Stationing and top back of curb elevations with curve data for curb returns;

Flow direction and type of cross drainage structures at intersections with adequate flow line elevations;

Type of curb and gutter if other than the standard thirty inch curb and gutter in the standard drawings;

Location and width of driveways;

Street cross sections with all proposed and existing utilities and base sections as per pavement design and soils report and Construction and Development Standards;

Sanitary Sewer, Storm, Land and Groundwater Drain Plans.
Include the following for sanitary sewer, storm, land and groundwater drain plans:

Plan and profile of all new and existing mains and manholes;

Box and manhole size, location, and elevations of flow lines and rim;

Location, size, grade, and type of pipe of new and existing mains;

Location of each lateral with distance stubbed back into property clearly drawn and dimensioned;

Storm water calculations for a 10, 25, and 100 year storm;

Storm inlet boxes shall be located on street corners and or property lines.

Drinking Water and Pressurized Irrigation Plans.
Include the following for drinking water and pressurized irrigation plans:

Location, size, and type of pipe of new and existing water mains;

Location of valves, fittings, hydrants, boxes, meters, and appurtenances;

Minimum cover;

Location of each lateral with distance stubbed back into property clearly drawn and dimensioned;

Looping of the drinking waterline and pressurized irrigation lines will be required at the discretion of the City Engineer to provide adequate fire flows, pressures, water quality, and redundancy.
Below are guidelines as to when looping may be required: 

Pressure Swings

Looping is required if modeled or existing pressure swings exceed 20 psi during a peak day.

Fire Flow and Minimum Pressure

Looping is required if modeled or existing pressures and fire flow do not meet State or City minimum standards.

Number of Units/Acres

After 50 homes or equivalent residential units, the drinking water lines must be looped. After 35 acres of landscaping the pressure irrigation lines need to be looped.

Supply to Critical Facilities

If the waterline will or does supply water to a critical facility (as determined by the City Engineer), looping is required.

Water Quality:

Looping is required if there is reasonable risk of the design causing degradation of water quality.

Landscaping Plans.
For landscaping that will be maintained by the City or a homeowner's association submit one copy of the landscaping plans including all irrigation system layouts, details, legends, and drawings. These project plans shall meet the requirements of the Chapter 30.90. Landscaping and Chapter 30.95. Irrigation Sprinkler Systems.

Irrigation Canal and Pipe Plans.
Plans that affect canals or irrigation pipes must be stamped approved by those responsible for their maintenance before they will be approved by the City.


4.39.20.030 Street Improvements
Driveway and Intersection Location.
Driveways and street intersection locations shall be designed according to Spanish Fork City Transportation Master Plan. No driveways shall be constructed within the following distances from an adjoining street. These distances are from Top Back Curb (TBC) to the edge of driveway for accesses:

Along Local Streets:

34' from an adjoining local street,

100' from adjoining collector/arterial (approach),

120' from adjoining collector/arterial (departure).

Curb cuts shall only be allowed for driveways. Driveways shall be a minimum of 3 feet from any above grade utility box. All accesses and streets onto collectors and arterials must be approved by the City Engineer.

No street intersection shall be allowed along the crossing road within 250 feet from the railroad right-of-way.

No access shall be allowed along the crossing road within 250 feet unless authorized and approved by the Development Review Committee. Any access approved within 250 feet of the railroad right-of-way shall require a railroad crossing diagnostic be completed and approved by both Union Pacific Railroad and UDOT.

Parking.
Parking shall meet the requirements of the zoning ordinance and standard drawings.

Reverse Frontage Lots.
New residential developments shall not be designed to allow direct access from individual lots or dwelling units to major collector or larger streets. The City Engineer may allow direct access from a minor collector street if the lots have a larger front setback of 35 feet and a driveway designed to prevent vehicles backing into the street. Where direct access to a minor collector street is allowed, a shared drive approach with separate driveways will be required where possible.

Allowable Grades.
The maximum grade allowed for any City street or private driveway is 8.0% unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. In no case shall grades greater than 12.0% be allowed. The minimum grade allowed for any City street 0.45%. The City Engineer may allow a minimum grade of 0.35% if the roadway has incorporated Low Impact Development (LID) systems.

Stamped Concrete.
The color and pattern of stamped concrete shall be approved by the Development Review Committee.

Precast Concrete or Block Walls.
Masonry walls, six feet tall, shall be provided along the sides of residential developments which have reverse or side frontage to arterial streets, collector streets, interstates or railroads. If a lot has frontage on a Residential collector street, a 6' masonry wall is required. 

The general appearance, style, and color of the wall shall be in accordance with the following options found in 4.39.90.010.F Fences and Walls. 
Olympus Precast Durango with Wrought Iron
Olympus Precast Durango
Olympus Precast Ledge Stone
Rhinorock Ledgestone
Olympus Precast Ashlar

The developer or contractor may propose a different wall material, style, or color, but it must be reviewed and approved by the development review committee

Pedestrian Ramps.
Pedestrian ramps shall be placed at all corners of intersections and at all other locations of regular pedestrian traffic across roads as determined by the City Engineer or his/her designee. All ramps shall conform to the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and City standards. Utility access fixtures shall not be located within 2 feet of the closest edge of a pedestrian ramp. Concrete aprons for fire hydrants, electrical boxes & etc. shall extend to ramps or ramps/driveways. Storm inlet boxes are not allowed within the pedestrian ramp.

Horizontal and Vertical Curve.
Horizontal and vertical curve alignments shall be determined by AASHTO Geometric Design of Highways and Streets (Greenbook) and additional ASSHTO design standards.

Mailboxes.
Proposed neighborhood mailbox locations shall be required with the development plans.

Intersections.
Full intersections that are encompassed in one subdivision need to be built in the same phase of the subdivision. Up to the curb returns on all 4 corners. Section of a intersection cannot wait for future phases.
4.39.20.040 Utility Improvements
General.
It shall be the responsibility of the Developer to connect to existing utilities or improvements wherever they are located and extend those improvements to and through the development. This requirement includes hooking up existing homes within the development to all utilities. Workmanship and details of construction shall be in accordance with the City Construction Standards and/or other codes adopted by the City. All work shall be done under the supervision of the City Engineer.

Communication.
Communication lines shall be underground except when the City Engineer feels that such underground lines are not in the best interest of the City.

Electric.
Electrical lines shall be underground except when the City Engineer feels that such underground lines are not in the best interest of the City. Lines shall be located opposite of water and pressurized irrigation lines.

Pressurized Irrigation.
The Developer shall connect the development with the city pressurized irrigation system with all appurtenances and shall make such pressurized irrigation available to each lot or unit within the development. Adequacy of supply and sizes of pressurized irrigation mains shall be established by the City Engineer. Meter boxes shall be on the opposite corner of the lot from where the electrical boxes are located.

Sanitary Sewer.
The Developer shall provide each lot with a sanitary sewer system in accordance with the ordinances of the City. All said work shall be done as directed and under the supervision of the City Engineer.

Storm Drain.
The Developer shall provide on-site storm drainage facilities according to the storm water Drainage Design manual and in accordance with the ordinances of the City. Storm drainage systems shall incorporate Low Impact Development (LID) systems. The maximum allowable storm water discharge from any commercial and industrial development will be limited to 0.15 cfs/acre of development.

Drinking Water.
The Developer shall connect the development with the city drinking water system with all appurtenances and shall make such drinking water is available to each lot or unit within the development. Adequacy of supply and sizes of drinking water mains shall be established by the City Engineer. Pipes shall be located opposite from electrical lines. Looping of the drinking waterline will be required at the discretion of the City Engineer to provide adequate fire flows and redundancy.

Abandoned Utility Service.
Abandoned water services shall be disconnected at the main. Saddle and corp stop shall be removed and a Romac Industries stainless steel repair clamp (Style SS1) shall be installed. Unneeded sewer services shall have a cleanout at property line with a water tight plug on the private property side of the cleanout wye.




4.39.20.050 Airport Improvements

The following options, found in Section 4.39.90.010F Fences and walls, may be used at the airport as determined by the Development Review Committee.

6 foot chain link fence with 3 strands of barbed wire angled at the top of the fence.

Olympus Precast Durango Style half wrought iron or full concrete wall.

Ameristar Fence Products Montage II Invincible.








4.39.25 Inspection And Testing
4.39.25.010 General
4.39.25.020 Communication
4.39.25.030 Earthwork
4.39.25.040 Electric
4.39.25.050 Landscaping And Irrigation Sprinkler Systems
4.39.25.060 Portland Cement Concrete Work
4.39.25.070 Pressurized Irrigation
4.39.25.080 Sanitary Sewer
4.39.25.090 Storm, Land And Groundwater Drains
4.39.25.100 Streets
4.39.25.110 Drinking Water


4.39.25.010 General
Quality Control and Quality Assurance.
The following work shall be subject to the inspection and testing requirements of this chapter:
Work on existing or proposed City property;
Work on property that will be owned by a property owners association;
Work on existing or proposed streets, easements, or right-of-ways;
Work on existing or proposed City utilities.

Quality Control: The Contractor is responsible for performing all inspection and testing required to verify installed materials meet these standards and must verify the materials are accepted by the City Engineer. The Contractor must also ensure that any additional inspection and testing required by the City or a testing company is performed and accepted by the City.

Quality Assurance: The City may or may not perform additional inspection or testing for verification of material compliance. Testing and inspection performed by the City does not relieve the contractor of Quality Control requirements except as addressed in Article F - Testing Agency.

Submittals.
Contractor shall turn in submittals for all materials used on properties described in Article A - Quality assurance.
Mix Designs. Contractor must submit valid mix designs for each material to be used. Submittals must meet requirements of the individual materials specifications. For material specifications without submittal requirements, submit mix design identifying material, source and properties a minimum of 7 days prior to placement.
Quality Control Field Test Reports. Contractor must submit original quality control field test reports immediately to the City no later than the end of the current day. Field reports include visual observations and inspections, field densities for soils and aggregates, field densities for asphalt paving, and fresh concrete properties for all concrete placements. Failure to submit reports may result in suspension of the project.
Quality Control Laboratory Test Report. Submit original Quality Control reports to the City within 48 hours after test results are determined.
Asphalt Concrete Plant Production Records. Submit a copy of the plant production record for each asphalt concrete pavement placement that is run through a paver. Maintenance and repair handwork, including spreader box work, does not require a plant production report.
Pre-Construction Meeting.
The Contractor must schedule a pre-construction meeting with the City's engineering secretary before any work on a new development or City project may begin.

The Contractor, Developer, project engineer, and all subcontractors must be present at the pre-construction meeting. Any subcontractor not attending the pre-construction meeting must schedule an additional pre-construction meeting with the City before beginning work. Work must begin within 4 weeks of the pre-construction meeting or a new pre-construction meeting must be scheduled by the Contractor.
Inspection and Testing Notification.
The City may contract with a private company to conduct any inspections or testing specified to be performed by the City. All inspections and tests must be scheduled with the City or company contracted by the City a minimum of 1 full business day before needed. Requests for inspection on work requiring continuous inspection shall be made 3 full business days prior to commencing the work.
Testing and Sampling.
The City Engineer or City Inspector may require that sampling be performed in their presence, in which case the Developer or Contractor shall be notified of this requirement in writing at the time the building permit is issued, or at the pre-construction meeting, or when construction drawings are released by the City for construction, as applicable

The Contractor will perform quality control inspection, sampling and testing in accordance with specifications and City standards. Quality control testing will consist of all testing identified for acceptance within the individual specifications. At minimum, this will include the following:
Material quantity, by weight or volume
Aggregate gradations for all fill, asphalt or concrete materials
Thickness testing for all materials with a specified density
Density testing for all materials with a specified density

Mix properties for asphalt, including binder content, air voids at design compaction, voids in the mineral aggregate (VMA) at design compaction.
Mix properties for asphalt, including air content, slump, and 28 day compressive strengths.

Each sample or test shall be accompanied by the following written data, which shall be reported to the City with test results:
Name of Project.
Name of Developer/Contractor.
Project Street Address.
Appropriate Test Name.
Date of Sampling.
Sample Number (if more than on sample per day).
Name of technician who performed the testing.
Location of sample.
Testing Agency.
All materials testing, whether in a laboratory or in the field, shall be conducted by a testing agency approved by the City Engineer.

The City will contract with an independent certified testing company for the compaction and concrete testing on improvements in the public right of way, or improvements in a Planned Residential Development (PRD) which would be public if not for the PRD, or improvements in common areas. The Developer shall pay a fee for this testing before construction commences. Fees shall be based on the current contract the City has with the testing company. Additional tests and all re-tests shall require additional fees to be paid. Final acceptance of improvements shall not be issued until all additional fees are paid. The City may deduct these additional fees from the 10% cash bond paid by the Developer.
Work without Required Inspection and Testing.
Failure to provide proper notification or to perform work without inspection will result in rejected material. Rejected material will be subject to additional verification requirements including, but not limited to, post-placement sampling and laboratory testing for material conformance, in-place testing for asphalt and base thickness and density, in-place testing for concrete strength and air content. All post-placement testing for un-inspected work will be at no additional cost to the City.

Additionally, any work performed without required inspection or testing will give the City the option to hold the bond covering that portion of the improvements in violation, or, require the removal and replacement of the un-inspected work. The City shall have the option of retaining part or all of the bond for up to 10 years after installation of improvements constructed without required inspection or testing. The City Engineer may also accept the work at a reduced price.

Inspection and Testing Fees.
Inspection fees and/or connection fees required by Resolution 99-18 shall be paid and permits required shall be obtained prior to the pre-construction meeting.
Sub-standard Work and Pay Factors.
If any inspection or test indicates that work does not meet City standards the City Engineer may require that the work be redone. If the work has a pay factor option in the standards, the City Engineer may accept the work at a reduced price upon condition that the pay factors outlined in the City standards apply. Payment reduction amounts shall either be assessed to the developer as a fee based upon bond estimates for the work, or be applied against payments to Contractors for City contracts. When any work is done to a lower standard than allowed for in the pay factor tables the work shall be redone until it meets City standards.
Weekly Progress Meetings.
All construction projects in the City will have a weekly progress meeting at the City office. The City Engineer, City inspectors, the Contractor, and subcontractors shall be in attendance.
Road Construction.
Road construction may not commence until all underground utilities are installed and pass all the inspections and tests required by these standards.
As-Built Survey.
The Contractor shall notify the City to survey all underground utilities either installed or uncovered in the course of construction. Contractor shall give the City 24-hour notice to survey utilities.
Acceptance of Improvements.
Inspections made by the City or a company hired by the City to determine compliance with the specifications do not imply final acceptance of the work. The City requires the completion of all facilities before any are accepted for maintenance. The following inspections must be scheduled and passed before final acceptance of any improvements:
End of Construction Inspection. The Contractor must schedule with the City an end of construction inspection once all the improvements in a development or project are completed according to the Construction and Development Standards.
Final Acceptance Inspection. One year after the Contractor or Developer passes the end of construction inspection, he or she must schedule a final acceptance inspection. This inspection must be conducted after the one year asphalt preservation coat is applied when applicable.

If the Contractor or Developer does not pass one of these inspections a punch list of work items necessary to pass the inspection will be given to the Contractor or Developer within 2 business days of the inspection. The Contractor or Developer must reschedule inspections with the City until the project or development passes the inspection.

All improvements shall be free from defects, damage, or debris at the time of these inspections. The Contractor or Developer shall not be responsible for debris or damage not caused as a result of his or her work or quality of work.

Any faulty or defective work shall be corrected by the Contractor within 30 days of the failed inspection or according to the contract the City has with the Contractor.

If the Contractor or Developer fails to do so, the City Engineer shall have such repairs made, and the cost of such repairs shall be paid by the Developer together with 25% in addition thereto for stipulated damages for such failure on the part of the Developer to make the repairs.
Pre-Paving Meeting.
The paving contractor must schedule a pre-paving meeting with the City's engineering secretary at least 7 days before any asphalt paving on a new development or city project may begin. Paving may not begin until after the pre-paving meeting and/or written notice-to-proceed is given by the City.

The paving contractor, developer, project engineer, supplier and testing firm must be present at the pre-construction meeting. Topics for the meeting will include:
Contact Information and Project Responsibility
Submittal Review
Placement Schedule
Placement Tonnages
Density testing and inspection details, including field targets, roller pattern and whether cores will be used for thickness and density acceptance.
Mix sampling and testing details, including sampling locations, procedures, testing facility and result turnaround time.
Inclement weather plans.
Workmanship issues, including tack coverage, limitations on raking and smoothness requirements.
Asphalt Paving Acceptance Details.
Unless otherwise stated, the City will determine acceptance of asphalt paving, including underlying base layers, based on a combination of contractor quality control testing, City quality assurance testing, and asphalt plant production records.
4.39.25.020 Communication
Conduit Inspection.
The City must inspect all conduit before backfilled.
Service Stub Inspection.
The City must inspect all service stubs before backfilled.
Final Communication Inspection.
Once all communication work for a development is completed to City standards, a final communication inspection must be done by the City Engineer. This may be done at the same time as the final electrical inspection.
Bedding Inspection.
The City must inspect the bedding in all communication trenches.




4.39.25.030 Earthwork
Compaction and Moisture Content Tests.
The City will test all sub-grade and fill material for compaction and moisture content. Test locations shall be determined by the City.
Trenches. Tests will generally be taken 1 per 200 lineal foot of trench per 8 inch lift.
Streets. Tests will generally be taken 3 per 200 lineal foot of street per 8 inch lift.
Other Cuts and Fills. Tests will generally be taken 1 per 2,000 square feet of compacted area.
Redhead Inspection.
The project engineer must provide redheads for all grade work when brought to within 3 inches of finish grade. The City must inspect and accept finished grading to the engineered redheads.
Proof Roll Inspection.
Prior to placing fill material for roadbed backfills, proof roll sub-grade using gross weight of 18,000 pounds per tandem axle, with a tire pressure at least 90 psi, unless otherwise specified by the soils report. Contractor shall proof roll under the supervision of the City according to the following conditions:
Passes. All proof roll passes will traverse the sub-grade parallel to the roadbed centerline. All subsequent passes will be offset half the vehicle width until the entire sub-grade is tested.
Mitigation. The City will analyze, determine, designate, and measure the areas, if any, requiring additional compaction or reconstruction.
Sub-grade Protection. Once sub-grade passes the proof rolling test, protect the surface from construction operations and traffic damage. Repair all cuts, ruts, and breaks. Keep surface in a satisfactory condition until geotextile fabric or base course has been placed.
Thickness Test.
Material thickness tests will be conducted by the City when the City Engineer considers it necessary. The total depth shall be reasonably close to that shown on the typical section. Depth analysis shall be made on at least four holes for each section. Base thickness shall be accepted if 75% of the test holes are less than 1/4" below the specified thickness and no individual hole shall be more than 3/4" below the specified thickness.




4.39.25.040 Electric
Conduit Inspection.
The City Engineer must inspect all conduit before backfilled.
Service Stub Inspection.
The City must inspect all service stubs before backfilled.
Street Light Base Inspection.
The City must inspect all street light bases prior to concrete placement and before they are backfilled around.
Bedding Inspection.
The City must inspect the bedding in all electrical trenches.
Final Electrical Inspection.
Once all electrical work for a development is completed to City standards a final electrical inspection must be done by the City.




4.39.25.050 Landscaping And Irrigation Sprinkler Systems
Plant Material Inspection.
All plant materials are to be inspected and approved by the City at the time of delivery on site. This approval does not constitute final acceptance of any plant material by the Spanish Fork City Parks Department Representative. All plant materials will be inspected again at time of final inspection and once again at the end of the warranty period. Any plant found to be unacceptable at any of these inspections shall be immediately removed and replaced.

Sprinkler System Assembly Inspection.
An on-site inspection shall be conducted by the City after the entire sprinkler system is assembled and prior to backfilling the trenches. During this inspection all fittings, bends, sweeps, valves, sprinkler heads and any other appurtenance on the system shall be surveyed by the City.

Fall Sprinkler Winterizing Test.
In the fall of the year during installation and guarantee period, the Contractor shall meet with the City on the project site. The Contractor shall winterize the system by draining all the water and doing everything necessary to insure the protection of the system until spring. Blowing out the lines by compression shall be permitted during the 1 year guarantee. The individuals involved from both parties shall exchange all information necessary for the eventual takeover of the system by the Spanish Fork City Maintenance Personnel.

Spring Sprinkler Energizing Test.
The Contractor with the Spanish Fork City Maintenance Personnel in attendance shall energize the sprinkler irrigation system the spring following the fall winterizing test. Contractor shall repair all defects found as a result of winter damage, improper installation, improper maintenance, defective materials or inadequate sprinkler drainage.

Final Acceptance Inspection.
At the end of the guarantee period, all landscaping and irrigation sprinkler systems must then be inspected and tested by the City. As-built drawings shall be furnished to the City at the time of the final inspection.

Irrigation sprinkler systems must operate in a satisfactory manner, with a full uniform coverage of the areas that are indicated to be sprinkled. Sprinkler heads shall be adjusted to proper level.

Landscape and irrigation sprinkler systems will not be inspected for acceptance in parts. Where inspected work does not comply with requirements, Contractor shall replace rejected work and continue specified maintenance until reinspected by the City and found to be acceptable. Remove rejected plants and materials promptly from the project site.




4.39.25.060 Portland Cement Concrete Work
General.
All materials and processes involved in concrete work shall be subject to inspection and testing as detailed in the various paragraphs of this section and in general compliance with ASTM E105-54T. Results of tests performed by laboratories approved by the City to the satisfaction of the City Engineer shall be accepted by the suppliers as a basis for acceptance or rejection of any and all materials.

The latest appropriate ASTM tests and methods shall be considered to be standard, and will include but not be limited to concrete, cement, aggregates additives, curing compounds, parting compounds and jointing materials. A copy of all batch tickets for concrete placed shall be submitted to the City.
Slump, Temperature and Air Entrainment Test.
The City shall test slump, temperature, and air entrainment on every fifty cubic yards or less of concrete placed each day. Tests shall be taken after 1/2 to 1 yard of the first truck has been poured from the mixer. Once a sample is taken the concrete pour shall be stopped until tests show that the concrete meets City standards. Concrete that does not meet City requirements for slump, temperature, and air entrainment shall not be used. Any that may already have been poured shall be removed before hardening.
Compression Test.
The City shall test compression on every fifty cubic yards or less of concrete placed each day according to ASTM C143, C231. C1064, C172, and C31. Three cylinder specimens shall be taken for each test, one shall be broken at 7 days, one at 28 days and the third held for 45 days after submittal in case further testing is required.

Specimens shall attain the specified strength at 28 days. One lot is 1 day's production. A lot with sub-standard compressive strength may be accepted at reduced price if the appropriate pay factor is applied to the whole lot. The following table outlines the pay factors for sub-standard Portland cement concrete strength:


Pay
Factor	Tolerance
(psi below 28 day
specified strength)
0.98	1 to 100
0.94	101 to 200
0.88	201 to 300
0.80	301 to 400
0.50	401 to 500
Replace	More than 500

These pay factors may not be applied toward concrete in structures.

Forms and String Line Inspection.
The City shall inspect all forms and string lines before concrete may be placed.

Gutter Drainage Inspection.
The City shall inspect all gutters for drainage prior to paving. Water shall be let into all gutters and any gutters with standing water in excess of 1/4 inch after runoff shall be replaced. Contractor must supply water truck for gutter drainage inspection.
Thickness Test.
The City shall determine the number, if any, and location of core tests necessary to ensure the proper thickness of Portland cement concrete. Tests shall be taken at equal intervals in a test area. A test area shall be defined as a total area placed at the same time and by the same process. The average thickness shall then be determined from all the cores taken. Tests shall be taken and verified by a certified testing lab contracting to the City.

When the average thickness is more than 0.25 inches below the specified thickness, a minimum of 1 core per 1,500 square feet of pavement shall be taken. Work with sub-standard thickness may be accepted at reduced price if the appropriate pay factor for the lowest tested thickness is applied to all of the substandard work. The following table outlines the pay factors for substandard Portland cement concrete thickness:

Portland Cement Concrete Thickness Pay Factors

Pay
Factor	Tolerance
(inches below specified thickness)
1.00	0.00 to 0.25
0.90	0.26 to 0.50
0.70	0.51 to 0.75
0.50	0.76 to 1.00
Replace	More than 1.00


Curing Inspection.
The City shall inspect the curing of all Portland cement concrete work within 24 hours of pouring the concrete.




4.39.25.070 Pressurized Irrigation
General.
The inspections and tests in this section are required for all pressurized irrigation construction in the City boundaries and on all construction relating to the City pressurized irrigation system outside the city boundaries.
Main Line Inspection.
The City must inspect all pressurized irrigation main line installation on an ongoing basis. Inspection notification must be given before any construction of the main line may begin. All crosses, tees, bends, valves, and drains must be inspected and surveyed by the City before they are backfilled.
Pressurized Irrigation Service Inspection.
The City must inspect all pressurized irrigation services before service trenches are backfilled. The City must be able to survey services at the main during the inspection.
Pressure Test.
The Contractor must pressure test all pressurized irrigation systems, system extensions and service laterals to the setter in the presence of the City Engineer or have tests documented and submitted by a certified testing company approved by the City. Pressure tests must meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 08 00 (Commissioning of Water Utilities).
Leakage Test.
Leakage tests shall be conducted concurrently with the pressure tests. Leakage shall be defined as the quantity of water that must be supplied into the newly laid pipe, or any valved section thereof, to maintain pressure within 5 psi of the specified test pressure after the air in the pipeline has been expelled and the pipe has been filled with water.

No pipe installation will be accepted if the leakage is greater than that determined by the following formula:

          LD*P
Q=  ------------
          133,200

In which Q is the allowable leakage, in gallos per hour; L is the length of pipeline tested in feet; P is the average test pressure, in pounds per square inch (gage) and D is the nominal diameter of the pipe in inches.

Provide a 225 psi test pressure for 2 hours unless specified otherwise. If any test of pipe laid discloses leakage greater than specified, the Contractor shall, at their own expense, locate and repair the defective material until the leakage is within the specified allowance. All visible leaks are to be repaired regardless of the amount of leakage.


4.39.25.080 Sanitary Sewer
General.
The inspections and tests in this section are required for all sanitary sewer construction in the City boundaries and on all construction relating to the City sanitary sewer system outside the city boundaries.
Main Line Inspection.
The City must inspect all sanitary sewer main line installation on an ongoing basis. Inspection notification must be given before any construction of the main may begin.
Service Inspection.
The City must inspect all sanitary sewer services before service trenches are backfilled. The City must be able to survey services at each end during the inspection. If the contractor is connecting to an existing service lateral, the existing lateral must be video inspected, from the point of connection to the sewer main, to determine condition. If the existing lateral is determined to need replacement, the contractor is required to replace and reconnect the existing lateral.

Air Pressure Test.
Contractor shall conduct a low pressure air test by the following method under the direction of the City Engineer with equipment equal to Cherne Industrial, Inc., or provide proof that test was conducted by a certified testing company. Sanitary sewer pipes with inside diameters of 30 inches or larger shall be leak tested according to manufacturer's specifications.

All wyes, tees, or ends of lateral stubs shall be suitably capped and braced to withstand the internal test pressures. Caps shall be easily removable for future lateral connections or extensions. After a manhole to manhole section of line has been backfilled and cleaned, it shall be plugged at each manhole with pneumatic plugs.

Low pressure air shall be introduced into the sealed line until the internal air pressure reaches 4 psi-G greater than the average back pressure of any ground water that may be over the pipe. At least 2 minutes shall be allowed for the air pressure to stabilize.

The portion of line being tested shall be accepted if the portion under test does not lose air at a rate greater than 0.003 cubic feet per minute per square foot of internal pipe surface or 2.0 cubic feet per minute minimum when tested at an average 3.0 psi-G greater than any back pressure exerted by ground water that may be over the pipe at the time of the test.

The pipe and joints shall also be considered acceptable when the time required in minutes for pressure to decrease from 3.5 to 2.5 psi_G (greater than the average back pressure of any ground water that may be over the pipe) shall not be less than the time shown for the given diameters in the following table:

Pressure Reduction Time Limits

Pipe Diameter (inches)	Time (minutes)
4	2.0
6	3.0
8	4.0
10	5.0
12	5.5
15	7.5
18	8.5
21	10.0
24	11.5


If the installation fails to meet this requirement, the Contractor shall determine at his/her own expense the source of leakage. He shall repair or replace all defective materials and/or workmanship. All sanitary sewer mains shall be tested, cleaned and accepted by Spanish Fork City before laying the street surface.

Video Inspection.
Contractor shall clean all sanitary sewer lines prior to video inspection. The City shall video inspect all sanitary sewer main lines prior to paving. Cost to video inspect shall be deducted from inspection fee.

Cleaning shall be done using a high pressure jet cleaning machine, producing a minimum of 800 psi. Waste water and debris shall not be permitted to enter the City sanitary sewer system, but shall be removed at the lowest manhole of the extension.

Main line determined to be defective by the City Engineer shall be remedied by the Contractor. Contractor shall then clean and video inspect the main lines again.
Deflection Test.
Contractor shall perform a displacement test on all sewer lines after video inspection. Deflections tests must be conducted in the presence of the City Engineer or be documented and submitted by a certified testing company approved by the City. In no case shall pipe be accepted that has a deflection of more than 5% after it has been backfilled. The Mandrel must be pulled by hand or air. A pipe deflection test shall be required of the Developer/Contractor after backfilling and compaction of the trench.
4.39.25.090 Storm, Land And Groundwater Drains
General.
The inspections and tests in this section are required for all storm, land and groundwater drain construction in the City boundaries and on all construction relating to the City storm, land and groundwater drain system outside the city boundaries.
Main Line Inspection.
The City must inspect all storm, land and groundwater drain main lines during installation on an ongoing basis. Inspection notification must be given before any construction of the pipe may begin. All groundwater drains shall be pre-approved by the City Engineer.
Video Inspection.
Contractor shall clean all storm, land and groundwater drain lines prior to video inspection. The City shall video inspect all sanitary storm, land and groundwater drains lines prior to paving. Cost to video inspect shall be deducted from inspection fee.

Cleaning shall be done using a high pressure jet cleaning machine, producing a minimum of 800 psi. Debris shall not be permitted to enter the City storm drain system.
Underground Storm Water Chamber Inspection.
Chambers must be free of any debris. A City Inspector shall be present and require a fire hydrant be opened for a minimum of 5 minutes with the water directed to the lowest storm water inlet connected to the chambers and adjacent planter strips. Voids, sinkholes, debris filled chambers or inspection ports will not be accepted. It will be the contractor's responsibility to resolve all punch list items.

Main line determined to be defective by the City Engineer or his/her designee shall be remedied by the Contractor. Contractor shall then clean and video inspect the main lines again.




4.39.25.100 Streets
Asphalt Pavement Material Tests.
Material tests will be conducted by the City when the City Engineer considers it necessary.
Compaction Tests.
The City will test all bituminous pavement for compaction and moisture content. Test locations shall be determined by the City but will generally be taken 3 per 200 lineal foot of street or 1 per 2,000 square foot of paved area. Pay factors as per APWA 32 12 16 (Plant-Mix Asphalt Paving) shall apply.
Grading Inspection.
The sub-grade, sub-base, and road base shall all be graded to an engineered red-head and accepted by Spanish Fork City. Red-heads shall be placed every 50 feet at the crown of the road. If the distance between redheads and edge of pavement exceeds 25 feet additional redheads shall be installed halfway between the crown and edge of pavement. Red-heads shall also be placed every 50 feet at the edge of pavement where there is no curb and gutter.
Thickness Test.
Material depth tests will be conducted by the City when the City Engineer considers it necessary. The total depth shall be reasonably close to that shown on the typical section. Depth analysis shall be made on at least four holes for each section. Base thickness shall be accepted if 75% of the test holes are less than 1/4" below the specified thickness and no individual hole shall be more than 3/4" below the specified thickness. Work with sub-standard thickness may be accepted at reduced price if the appropriate pay factor for the lowest tested thickness is applied to all of the sub-standard work. The following table outlines the pay factors for sub-standard asphalt pavement thickness:

Pavement Depth Pay Factors

Pay
Factor	Tolerance
(inches below specified thickness)
0.95	0.00 to 0.25
0.90	0.26 to 0.50
Replace	More than 0.50


Profile Tolerance Inspection.
Profile tolerance inspections may be required by the City any time within a year of paving. Collector and arterial streets shall meet the requirements of APWA 32 12 16 (Plant-Mix Asphalt Paving). For local streets profiling, the maximum vertical distance from the pavement surface to a straight edge is:

1/4-inch in 10-feet parallel to centerline.
3/8-inch in 10-feet perpendicular to centerline except at cross section grade breaks.

Collector and arterial streets shall meet the requirements of APWA 32 12 16 (Plant-Mix Asphalt Paving).
Asphalt Concrete Temperature Test.
This test shall be conducted on the first three loads of asphalt concrete installed, and on one in four of all future loads as required by the City. Testing shall be conducted according to the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 12 16 (Plant-Mix Asphalt Concrete Paving). Temperature gauge shall be allowed to stabilize for 1 minute before taking reading if using probe type. If using infrared "gun" type, reading shall consist of an average of a minimum of 3 readings, where reading is taken immediately after displacing a minimum of 2 inches of material from the surface being tested and the "gun" is within 18" of the surface being tested.
Asphalt Paving Limitations.
Pave according to Section 02741 Part 3.8 of the 2012 Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction published by the Utah Department of Transportation (UDOT) unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. Place HMA between April 15 and October 15, and when the air temperature in the shade and the roadway surface temperature are above 50 degrees Fahrenheit. In the event the City Engineer approves paving between October 15th and April 15th, an overlay in the spring will be required as outlined in the table below. Do not place HMA on frozen base or during adverse climatic conditions such as precipitation or when roadway surface is icy or wet. Use a release agent that does not dissolve asphalt and is acceptable to the City Engineer for all equipment and hand tools used to mix, haul, and place HMA.

Pavement Depth After October 15th/ Before April 15th

Street	Typical	Base 
Asphalt	Spring
Overlay	Total
Asphalt
Local	3"	2.5"	2"	4.5"
Collector	4"	3"	2"	5"
Arterial	5"	4"	2"	6"
Parking Lot &
Driveway	3"	2.5"	2"	4.5"
Commercial Local	4"	3"	2"
	5"

The City Engineer may, at his/her discretion, waive this date restriction requirement if outside temperatures are at least 60 degrees Fahrenheit and the base material condition is approved.




4.39.25.110 Drinking Water
General.
The inspections and tests in this section are required for all drinking water construction in the City boundaries and on all construction relating to the City drinking water system outside the city boundaries.
Main Line Inspection.
The City must inspect all drinking water main line installations on an ongoing basis. Inspection notification must be given before any construction of main line may begin. All crosses, tees, bends, valves and hydrants must be inspected and surveyed by the City before they are backfilled.
Drinking Water Service Inspection.
The City must inspect all drinking water services before service trenches are backfilled. The City must be able to survey services at the main during the inspection.
High Chlorine Test.
High Chlorine tests shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 13 00 (Disinfection). The City must conduct a high chlorine test at every hydrant on a new drinking water main installation. If a hydrant does not exist on the test section, tests must be taken at the end of each line. The chlorine residual shall be at least 25 mg/L.
Pressure Test.
Pressure test must be conducted after the successful completion of the bacteria test. The Contractor must pressure test all drinking water systems, system extensions and service laterals to the setter in the presence of the City Engineer or have tests documented and submitted by a certified testing company approved by the City. Pressure tests must meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 08 00 (Commissioning of Water Utilities).
Leakage Test.
Leakage tests shall be conducted concurrently with the pressure tests. Leakage shall be defined as the quantity of water that must be supplied into the newly laid pipe, or any valved section thereof, to maintain pressure within 5 psi of the specified test pressure after the air in the pipeline has been expelled and the pipe has been filled with water.

No pipe installation will be accepted if the leakage is greater than that determined by the following formula:

        LD*P
Q= ----------
       133,200

In which Q is the allowable leakage, in gallons per hour; L is the length of pipeline tested in feet; P is the average test pressure, in pounds per square inch (gage) and D is the nominal diameter of the pipe in inches.

Provide 225 psi test pressure for 2 hours unless specified otherwise. If any test of pipe laid discloses leakage of greater than specified, the Contractor shall, at their own expense, locate and repair the defective material until the leakage is within the specified allowance. All visible leaks are to be repaired regardless of the amount of leakage.
Bacteria Test.
Bacteria tests shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 13 00 (Disinfection). Tests may only be scheduled at certain regular times set by the City. The Contractor shall be present and open all hydrants or other locations to be tested from. The City shall submit samples to a certified lab to be tested according to state drinking water regulations.

If any sample point fails on the first test, the line will be flushed and re-tested at all sample points. If any sample point fails a second time, the complete line will be re-disinfected and re-tested at all sample points. If any samples come back marked "presence", which means coli form bacteria is present, the line will be re-disinfected and re-tested at all sample sites. Contractor is responsible to pay for all bacteria tests and retests.

Drinking water services on main replacements will not be installed until bacteria sample results have been approved by the City Engineer. All testing lab fees shall be paid for by the Contractor. Services on new subdivisions will be tested at the same time as the main line.
4.39.30 Contractor Requirements
4.39.30.010 General
4.39.30.020 Insurance
4.39.30.030 Excavation Permits
4.39.30.040 Inspection Fee
4.39.30.050 Materials Submittals
4.39.30.060 Quality Control


4.39.30.010 General
Contractors Working for a Developer.
Contractors and subcontractors working for a Developer must prequalify before doing any work in existing or proposed City property, streets, easements, or right-of-way and for any work on existing or proposed City utilities. To prequalify the following must be on file in the City Engineer's office:
A current Contractor's license specified for project type according to Utah State Code;
Insurance information;
Contractor information sheet;
Project Bond;
Excavation Permit;
UDOT Permit for construction in state right-of-way; and
Railroad Permit for construction in railroad right-of-way.

Failure to pre-qualify before doing any construction shall constitute grounds for legal action.
Contractors Working for the City.
Bids for City projects will only be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder with current contractor's license specified for the project type according to the Utah State Code. The City's contractor qualifications and experience forms shall be completely filled out and submitted with bid. Failure to do so is basis to reject the bid. Spanish Fork City reserves the right to determine a non-responsible bidder based upon these forms or any other research conducted by the city.
Status Verification System.
Contractor agrees that it, and its subcontractors, will register with and use a Status Verification System to verify the federal employment authorization status of all employees hired after July 1, 2009. Contractor, and its subcontractors, will comply, in all respects, with Utah Code Annotated 63-99a-103, as it may be amended from time to time.




4.39.30.020 Insurance
General.
A Contractor must acquire the insurance stipulated in this section to prequalify to do construction work. The city must receive and accept proof of the insurance before any work may begin. The submittal of said evidence to the City shall not relieve or decrease the liability of the Contractor hereunder.
Workers' Compensation.
Contractor shall obtain workers compensation insurance as required by State law.
Commercial General Liability Insurance.
The following commercial general liability insurance must be obtained and submitted on ISO Form CG 00 01 (11/85) or equivalent, occurrence policy, with limits not less than:
General Aggregate                                           $1,000,000
Products - Comp/OPS Aggregate                 $1,000,000
Personal and Advertising Injury                   $500,000
Each Occurrence                                                $500,000
Fire Damage (any one fire)                                $50,000
Medical Expense (any one person)                   $5,000

Also include the following endorsements or their equivalents attached thereto:
ISO Form CG 25 03 (11/85), Amendment of Limits of Insurance (Designated Project or Premises), describing the subject contract and specifying limits as shown above.
ISO Form CG 20 10 (11/85), Additional Insured -- Spanish Fork City, Lessees, or Contractors (Form B), naming the City as additional insured and containing the following statement, "This Endorsement Also Constitutes Primary Coverage in the Event of any Occurrence, Claim, or Suit."
Automobile Liability Insurance.
Contractor shall obtain automobile liability insurance with limits of not less than $500,000 Combines Single Limit per accident. Coverage shall apply to any auto.




4.39.30.030 Excavation Permits
General.
No person, firm, partnership, corporation, or entity of any kind shall open up, break, dig, excavate, construct, reconstruct, repair, alter a grade in or upon any public street, sidewalk, curb, curb-cut, driveway, or gutter for any purpose or in any manner commence any construction in or upon any public rights of way, street, or sidewalk without first procuring from the city engineer an Excavation Permit for the specific construction or other work to be undertaken. Any emergency activity that is immediately necessary for the protection of life, property, or natural resources including activities required to promote public safety, repairs to water lines, and/or other City infrastructure repairs is exempt from an excavation permit with the approval of the City Engineer.

Contractors are required to qualify before obtaining an excavation permit to do construction work unless a project is already approved, bonded and insured. Permit fees shall be established by the City Council in the annual budget or by resolution. The permit must be approved 48 hours prior to construction. The permittee is given a copy of the approved permit and plan.

The City may stipulate time limits for completion of work and suspend permits for non-compliance. A copy of the excavation permit shall be on site during construction.

All excavation permits shall expire Every land disturbance permit shall expire and become null and void if substantial work authorized by such permit has not commenced within thirty (30) calendar days of issuance, or is not complete within ninety (90) days from the date of issuance the pre-construction meeting. Extensions may be given upon approval by the City Engineer.
Permit Requirements.
Contractors are required to submit the following information to obtain an excavation permit:
Copy of active Division of Occupational and Professional Licensing Contractors license (must be an E100, S410 or S390); 
Certificate of Insurance
A Certificate of Insurance (COI) within at least a 30-day written notice to the City in the event of cancellation and 10 days for non-payment of premium. Also, the following statement is required on the COI: "Spanish Fork City, its elected and appointed officials, employees, agents, volunteers and the Utah Department of Transportation are listed on the referenced policy as additional insureds.

Minimum $999.00 cash performance deposit. Additional deposit may be required depending on the scope and magnitude of project as determined by the Public Works Director. Upon completion of the project and Inspector accepts work performed, 50% will be released and remained will be retained throughout the 1 year warranty period. The remainder will be released if the project passes the 1 year warranty inspection.
$1,000 cash inspection and testing deposit. Any unused portion of the deposit will be refunded after the City inspects and accepts the work performed.
Detailed drawing of proposed work and traffic control. Any proposed road closures must comply with section 4.39.30.030.C.
Local/State/Federal Permits
The applicant shall obtain from any state or federal agency any other appropriate environmental permits that pertain to the property. Copies of these approved permits shall be included with the Excavation permit. However, the inclusion of those permits in the application shall not preclude the City Engineer from imposing additional development requirements and conditions, commensurate with this Chapter, on the development of property covered by those permits. Failure of the applicant to obtain the necessary permits may be a basis for denial of issuance of an Excavation Permit among other required permits. Such other required permits will be to obtain and maintain coverage during the duration of the project under the UPDES with a Notice of Intent (NOI) permit. Developers are also required to maintain a SWPPP during the duration of the project. A completed SWPPP is required to obtain an NOI permit from the State.
Drainage Channels, Waterways, and Sensitive Areas. Property owners shall not fill, alter, or restrict natural channels, wetlands, waterways or any other Sensitive Lands without proper permits from all responsible governing agencies, including an Excavation Permit from the City. Property owners proposing to redirect runoff, surface, and/or pipe flow to properties or facilities outside Spanish Fork City boundaries must provide written approval from the applicable governing agency. Discharges or modifications to irrigation ditches or canals require written approval from the canal owners and applicable governing agencies. Property owners are responsible for the protection of channels located within their property in compliance with this ordinance.
Inspection and Testing.
All work shall be inspected and tested by the City. All inspections and testing will be done by appointment only with a minimum 24-hour notice. If no inspection or applicable testing is called for and performed 60 days after permit issuance, both deposits will be forfeited. Items buried without City approval will be re-excavated by the permittee at no additional cost to the City. If the road is closed all open trenches shall be covered with a steel plate with appropriate warning sign. If snow is forecasted and the road is to remain open, no steel plates are allowed. Instead, local road trenches shall be backfilled and compacted with road base. Collector and arterial roads shall be backfilled with cold mix if a collector or arterial road.
Road Closure Requirements.
For all road, sidewalk and trail closures, if applicable, contractors must submit a road closure plan as part of their excavation permit application. The City will create a communication plan that shall be implemented for road closures. Road closures are not permitted on garbage pick-up day. This requirement can be waived by the City Engineer.
Communication Plan.
Public Involvement Firm
The contractor shall be required to hire a reputable public involvement firm to oversee the project. This requirement can be waived by the City Engineer if the project would not measurably benefit from a public involvement firm. The public involvement firm shall ensure the public that are affected by the project are well informed of project details, including schedule.
Date and time closure begins and ends.
Contractor shall provide a list of contacts including affected property owners and the following. Notify them off all closures, including start and end date of road closure. The list shall include, at minimum, the following entities/people.


Entity	Contact Name	Email/Phone Number
Nebo School District
Transportation Office	Adam Heaton - Transportation
Supervisor	801-465-5331
adam.heaton@nebo.edu
Fleet & Garbage Services
Division Manager	Gatlin Gardiner	ggardiner@spanishfork.org
Garbage & Recycling
Collection Contractor	Reece Demille -
Republic Services	rdemille@republicservices.com
Police	Jill Thorpe	jthorpe@spanishfork.org
Police	Lydia James	ljames@spanishfork.org
Fire & EMS	Eddie Hales	ehales@spanishfork.org
Fire & EMS	Krista Horting	khorting@spanishfork.org
Public Works Secretary	Addy Gillies	agillies@spanishfork.org
Administrative Intern	Olivia Andrus	oandrus@spanishfork.org
Engineering Secretary	Kim Coughlan	kcoughlan@spanishfork.org
Public Works Director	Chris Thompson	cthompson@spanishfork.org
Public Information Officer	Nick Porter	nporter@spanishfork.org
City Manager	Seth Perrins	sperrins@spanishfork.org
County Dispatch	Noreen Stone	nstone@cu911.org
UTA Dispatch	
	(801) 287-4650*
*For road closure notifications

Engineering secretary or public involvement consultant shall  send notice of closure with the approved traffic control plan to affected property owners within 500 feet of the closure or as defined in the traffic control plan. Notices shall be sent 5  days and again at 48 hours before closure unless otherwise approved in the traffic control plan. The traffic control plan shall include begin and end of closure dates. Notices may be in the form of a door hanger, phone call and/or email.


Fee Schedule.
Road closure fees permits shall be set by resolution or in the annual city budget.


Street Type	Rate (per lane/1,000 feet (rounding up to 
nearest thousand/day)
Sidewalk/Bike Lane/Trail	$50
Local	$100
Collector/Arterial ~ 500 to 4,500 ADT	$250
Collector/Arterial ~ 4,500 to 15,000
ADT	$500
Collector/Arterial ~ 15,000 to 32,000
ADT	$1,000

If road closure exceeds the time frame and/or constraints that the Contractor was approved and paid for, the excavation permit is revoked and all associated work will be stopped until a new permit is approved and fees paid. The Contractor can extend their road closure time frame if a new plan is approved and appropriate fees are paid. Road closure fees shall apply until the road is completely paved, restored to original condition and open to traffic.

4.39.30.040 Inspection Fee
General.
For bonded developments an inspection fee will be collected. The fee will be for City costs relating to the construction. These costs include but are not limited to survey, inspection, testing and administration. The fee will be estimated based upon previous projects. Portions of the fee not used shall be refunded to the Developer after the punch list of the final acceptance inspection is completed.

If City costs relating to inspection exceed the inspection fee, these costs will be paid for by the developer or they will be deducted from the 10% cash bond.




4.39.30.050 Materials Submittals
General.
Contractors are required to provide materials submittals for all materials to be used to the City for review and approval.
For pre-manufactured items, documentation must be submitted a minimum of 2 weeks before installation and must include sufficient information, including shop drawings, if applicable, to establish models, colors, sizes, installation requirements, etc. that will be used.
For on-site manufactured items, such as asphalt, concrete or base courses, submit mix designs, hot/cold weather installation plans, and materials certifications a minimum of 5 working days prior to planned installation.
Submittals for the following, at a minimum, should be submitted:
All pre-manufactured items meeting city standards such as light fixtures, electrical components, utility fixtures and piping, landscaping, etc.
Hot Mix Asphalt Mix Designs
Portland Cement Concrete Mix Designs
Treated Base Course Mix Designs
Untreated Base Course Job Mix Formulas
Tack and Prime Coats
Concrete Curing Compounds
Submit copies of all Quality Control testing and inspection reports within 48 hours of placement of materials.
4.39.30.060 Quality Control
General.
Perform Quality Control work in accordance with applicable materials sections of the APWA Standard Specifications unless otherwise directed.

The contractor is responsible for performing quality control work sufficient to meet requirements of APWA Standard Specifications and to demonstrate compliance with acceptance criteria. The City will perform assurance functions at their discretion and inform the contractor of acceptance or rejection.
Materials Production.
Use UDOT certified facilities for asphalt and Portland cement concrete.
Submit verification of Plant Certifications with mix designs.
Testing and Inspection.
Use UDOT certified laboratories and personnel.
Submit names, certificate levels and years of experience of testing agency's Field Technician that are assigned to work. Laboratory must comply with ASTM Standards. Use AMRL certified laboratory and WAQTC/UDOT TTQP certified technicians.
Submit verification of lab and personnel with mix designs.




4.39.35 Earthwork And Trenches
4.39.35.010 Excavation
4.39.35.020 Subsurface Pipe Installation
4.39.35.030 Subgrade
4.39.35.040 Fill Material
4.39.35.050 Slopes, Embarkments, Fills And Open Channels
4.39.35.060 Installation And Compaction Of Earth Materials
4.39.35.070 Geotextiles, Geogrids And Geocomposites


4.39.35.010 Excavation
General.
Excavation shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 23 16 (Excavation) unless otherwise indicated.
Safety.
All construction shall be done in accordance with the provisions of the Utah State Industrial Commission, OSHA regulations and APWA 31 23 16 (Excavation). No trenches deeper than 4 feet shall be left open at any time unless construction is in process. When construction is in process only 200 feet of trench may be open at one time and must be completely backfilled before proceeding. No trenches shall be left open at any time unless guarded with adequate barricades, warning lamps and signs.

Any injury or damage resulting from lack of adequate bracing and shoring shall be the responsibility of the Developer/Contractor and the Developer/Contractor shall, at his/her own expense, effect all necessary repairs or reconstruction resulting from such damage. No inspections will be done in unsafe trenches and will be the cause for immediate shutdown at the project until the trench is deemed to be safe by the City Engineer.
In Gravel and Paved Surface Areas.
Where any excavation occurs in a gravel or paved surface area such a a road, driveway or parking area, the surface shall be restored according to the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 25 (Pavement Restoration) and the following conditions:
Base.
Only engineered fill may be used as a backfill or sub-base material under gravel and paved surfaces. A minimum of 8 inches of untreated base course shall be placed over backfill or sub-base. All fill material shall be placed and compacted to City standards. Flowable fill shall not be allowed for backfill unless authorized by the City.
Surface Maintenance.
The surface shall be maintained by blading, sprinkling, rolling, adding gravel, etc., to maintain a safe uniform surface satisfactory to the City.
Cutting of Pavement.
Before any excavation in a paved area, the surface along the entire excavation shall be cut to provide a vertical joint in the surface. Cut shall be made 6 inches from the edge of excavation in straight lines parallel or perpendicular to the trench or edge of pavement. A pavement saw shall be used for all pavement cutting. If excavation damages the cut pavement, pavement shall be cut again before patching. A roto-milled edge shall be acceptable as a cut.
Time Limitation.
All road cuts shall be repaired within 2 working days of excavation unless otherwise authorized by the City Engineer.
Cold Weather Patching. Trenches cut during winter months or when asphalt plants are not operating, shall be patched the same day of the cut with a good quality cold mix according to the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 12 17 (Cold-Mix Asphalt Paving). These trenches shall be maintained until asphalt plants open. When asphalt plants open, the temporary cold patch shall be removed and a new patch of hot mix asphalt shall be placed. All cold mix patches shall be replaced with hot mix patches within 20 days of the opening of the hot mix plant.
Adjust Incidental Structures to Grade.
Adjust incidental structures to grade according to APWA 33 05 14 (Utility Grade Adjustment). City standard concrete collars around valves and manholes shall be installed 1 year from the time that pavement is placed or at the time of an overlay.
In Areas with Concrete.
When damaged, existing concrete improvements shall be removed and replaced to the next joint or scoring line beyond the damaged or broken sections. In the event that joints or scoring lines do not exist or are three or more feet from the removed or damaged section, the damaged portions shall be removed and reconstructed to neat, plane faces. All concrete work shall meet the requirements and specifications of Chapter 39.65. Portland Cement Concrete Work and APWA 33 05 25 (Pavement Restoration).
Rock Excavations.
Rock excavations shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 23 17 (Rock Removal).
Site Clearing and the Disposal of Excess Materials.
Site clearing shall be conducted according to APWA 31 11 00 (Site Clearing). All excavation material, which is not required for construction or is unsuitable for fill material, shall be immediately disposed of by the Contractor. All roads, sidewalks, curbs, gutters and ditches shall be kept clean of excavated material except as outlined in Title 12.04.050 of the Spanish Fork City Municipal Code.

All demolition work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 02 41 13 (Selective Site Demolition), APWA 02 41 14 (Pavement Removal) and APWA 02 41 15 (Pavement Pulverizing).

Removal and disposal of Asbestos Cement Pipe shall be per the Utah Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) Division of Air Quality (DAQ) guidance document, How to Handle Non-friable Asbestos Cement Pipe, A Guide for Meeting Utah Department of Environmental Quality/Division of Air Quality Rules ("Guidance").
4.39.35.020 Subsurface Pipe Installation
General.
Pipes, conduits or casings, 4 inches in diameter or less, may be bored, jacked, augured or jetted under sidewalk, curb, gutter if authorized by the City Engineer. The resulting hole diameter shall not exceed 1 inch plus the outside diameter of the pipe or sleeve installed.
Boring or Jacking.
Boring or jacking work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 23 (Trenchless Utility Installation).
Tunneling.
Where sidewalk, curb, and gutter exists, excavation may be made by tunneling provided the following requirements are met:
Excavation shall be vertical and as near to the curb or sidewalk as possible;
The length of the tunnel shall not exceed the width of the sidewalk, curb, and gutter;
Where a separate sidewalk and curb exit, an excavation shall be made between the sidewalk and the curb;
At least three feet of undisturbed earth shall be left under the sidewalk or curb; and
Where the sidewalk has been tunneled, the hole shall be filled from each end with flowable fill. Where the excavation cannot meet these requirements, a section of sidewalk, curb, or gutter, from joint to join shall be removed and replaced.
4.39.35.030 Subgrade
Preparation.
All sub-grade shall be shaped and compacted in reasonably close conformity with lines, grades, and typical cross section as established by the City Engineer. All grading shall be based on an engineered survey, accepted by Spanish Fork City.

In trenches and cut or fill areas the sub-grade shall be scarified to a depth of 8 inches and compacted according to the compaction standards of this chapter. No rocks larger than 4 inches in diameter, organic material, soft clay, spongy material, or other deleterious material will be permitted in this scarified sub-grade layer.
Soft and Yielding Areas.
Soft and yielding areas which do not compact to City standards shall be removed and replaced with enough compacted engineered fill to bridge the area. Trenches excavated within 10 feet of the lip of gutter shall be removed and replaced as part of the trench asphalt pavement repair, or otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
Trenches.
When the sub-grade material does not afford a sufficiently solid foundation to support the pipe and superimposed load, the trench shall be over-excavated to a sufficient depth and backfilled with enough compacted fill as approved by the City to bridge the area.
Roads.
Road sub-grades shall be shaped and graded to within a tolerance of 0.15 feet of design grade. Drainage shall be maintained at all times.
Structures.
Sub-grade material for all concrete structures, regardless of type or location, shall be firm, dense, thoroughly compacted and consolidated; shall be free from mud and muck; and shall be sufficiently stable to remain firm and intact under the feet of the workmen engaged in sub-grade surfacing, laying reinforcing steel, and depositing concrete.

Coarse gravel or crushed stone may be used for subsoil reinforcement if results are satisfactory to the City Engineer. Such material shall be applied in layers, not exceeding 6 inches in thickness, each layer being embedded in the sub-soil by thorough tamping. All excess soil shall be removed to compensate for the displacement of the gravel or crushed stone and the finished elevation of any subsoil reinforced in this manner and shall not be above the specified sub-grade.

The City Engineer may require a soil analysis and design for any area.
4.39.35.040 Fill Material
General.
All fill material shall be placed on sub-grade prepared according to the specifications of this chapter. All fill material shall be compacted according to the specifications of this chapter.

Only engineered fill or untreated base course may be used as fill material under and within a foot of streets, future street areas, driveways, and concrete unless otherwise specified. All fill material under and within a foot of electrical and communications boxes shall be untreated base course. In other areas native excavated material may normally be used unless such material cannot be properly compacted according to specifications in this chapter. All fill material, including native fill material, must be free from debris, organic material, and rocks larger than 6 inches in diameter and have a liquid limit not to exceed 35 and plastic limit not to exceed 15.
Bedding Material.
Use APWA No. 4 sewer rock for gravity pipe bedding material. Use sand as a bedding material for pressure pipe and electrical and communication conduit. Bedding sand must compact sufficiently to support the pipe and shall meet the following gradation:

Sand Gradation

Sieve/Screen
Size	% Passing
No. 4	100
No. 200	10 to 20
Engineered Fill.
Engineered fill shall be used for all imported material unless otherwise specified. Engineered fill shall be AASHTO A-1-A granular and well graded meeting the following gradation:

Engineered Fill Gradation

Sieve/Screen
Size	% Passing
4"	100
3/4"	70 to 100
No. 200	0 to 15

On that portion of the aggregate passing the No. 40 sieve, the liquid limit shall not exceed 30, nor shall the plasticity index exceed 15 when tested in accordance with AASHTO T89 and T90. Imported material under city streets shall have a minimum CBR of 25.

Untreated Base Course.
All untreated base course shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 11 23 (Crushed Aggregate Base) Grade 3/4 for untreated base course. The use of slag as an untreated base course shall not be permitted.
Cement Treated Fill.
Cement treated fill shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 15 (Cement Treated Fill). Cement treated fill does not include treated/stabilized base materials that are part of the pavement design. Cement treated fill includes following fill materials:
Controlled low-strength material (CLSM) (flowable fill),
Lime treated fill,
Asphalt treated fill.
Defective Fill.
Fill not conforming to the requirements of this specification shall be reworked to the requirements or removed and replaced with acceptable fill.




4.39.35.050 Slopes, Embarkments, Fills And Open Channels
Preparation.
Unsuitable materials that occur in the foundation for slopes, embankments, and fills shall be removed by clearing, stripping, and/or grubbing. Where suitable materials occur, after stripping, the foundation shall be scarified to a depth of not less than 8 inches. All materials in slopes, embankments, and fills, including the scarified foundation layer, shall be placed, moistened, and compacted according to the compaction standards in the chapter.
Materials.
When the slope, embankment, or fill exceeds the amount of excavation, sufficient additional material shall be obtained from borrow pits provided by the Contractor. All material proposed to be imported shall be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer prior any hauling operations.

The materials used for slope, embankment and fill construction shall be free from sod, grass, trash, rocks larger than 6 inches in diameter and all other material unsuitable for construction of compacted fills.
Grading.
Grading of completed slope, embankment, or fill shall bring the surfaces to a smooth, uniform condition with final grades being within 0.1 foot of the design grade. All grading shall be done to an engineered red-head.
Slope Safety.
All slope construction shall be in accordance with all City, State and Federal regulations. Plans and Specifications for structures must be approved by the City if the excavation is greater than five (5) feet. No permanent slopes steeper that 3:1 shall be allowed without a retaining structure unless otherwise approved in writing by the City Engineer. The width of the excavation shall be increased if necessary to provide space for sheeting, bracing, shoring and/or other supporting installations. Unsafe slopes will be the cause for immediate shutdown of the project.
Sediment and Erosion Control.
A sediment and erosion control plan shall be implemented and followed. It must accurately describe the potential for soil erosion and sedimentation problems resulting from land disturbing activity and shall explain and illustrate the measures that are to be taken to control these problems. The length and complexity of the plan is to be commensurate with the size of the project, severity of the site condition, and potential for off-site damage. The plan shall meet the requirements and specifications of Spanish Fork City municipal code, Title 13.60.060 and APWA 31 25 00 (Erosion and Sedimentation Control).
Gabions.
Gabions shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 36 00 (Gabions).
Rip Rap and Rock Lining.
Rip rap and rock lining work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 37 00 (Riprap or Rock Lining).
4.39.35.060 Installation And Compaction Of Earth Materials
General.
The installation of all fill material shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 20 (Backfilling Trenches), APWA 31 23 23 (Backfilling Structures), APWA 32 05 10 (Backfilling Roadways) and APWA 31 23 26 (Compaction). Fill material outside of pavement areas, as defined by APWA 32 05 10 (Backfilling Roadways), and more than 23 inches from any utility box shall be compacted to not less than 90% of the maximum dry density.
Streets.
Sub-base and road-base shall be graded to an engineered red head. Loose rock, roots, brush, and other materials that may be encountered in shaping the sub-base must be removed.
Soft and Yielding Spots.
Any soft and yielding spots in the fill or sub-grade which do not compact to the specified density shall be removed and replaced with engineered fill installed and compacted to City standards or as directed by a Geotechnical Engineer.
Backfill in Trenches.
Backfill shall be carefully placed around and over pipes and shall not be permitted to fall directly on a pipe from such a height or in such a manner as to cause damage.
Pipe Zone.
The pipe zone includes the full width of trench from 3 inches below the pipe to 12 inches above the pipe for all pipes except for large reinforced concrete pipe (RCP). Large RCP includes RCP with internal diameters larger than 24 inches. The pipe zone for large RCP shall include the full width of trench from 6 inches below the pipe to 12 inches above the pipe. The pipe zone shall extend horizontally a minimum of 6 inches and a maximum of 12 inches from either side of the pipe except for electrical and communication conduit. Electrical and communication conduit may be placed against the sides of trenches. Trenches shall be wide enough to compact fill material according to the specifications in this chapter.
4.39.35.070 Geotextiles, Geogrids And Geocomposites
General.
All geotextile work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 19 (Geotextiles). Geogrid and geocomposite work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 21 (Geogrids/Geocomposites). Geotextile, geogrid and geocomposite work includes but is not limited to the following geotextile applications:
Stabilization-separation,
Silt fence,
Erosion control,
Roadway pavements,
Drainage,
Weed barrier
Granular base reinforcement,
Asphalt concrete reinforcement, and
Soil reinforcement.
4.39.40 Drinking Water
4.39.40.010 General
4.39.40.020 Installation
4.39.40.030 Pipe And Fittings
4.39.40.040 Valves And Couplings
4.39.40.050 Fire Hydrants
4.39.40.060 Meters And Services
4.39.40.070 Flushing
4.39.40.080 Disinfection Of Drinking Water Lines


4.39.40.010 General
Specifications.
These specifications cover the installation of drinking water lines. See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. See standard drawings related to water.
Pipe.
Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) pipe shall be used for all drinking water mains 12 inches in diameter and smaller unless otherwise authorized by the City Engineer. Ductile iron wrapped with V-Bio Polyethylene Encasement or approved equivalent, PVC, or polyethylene pipe shall be used for culinary drinking water mains larger than 12 inches in diameter as approved by the City Engineer. Only PVC or polyethylene pipe may be used in corrosive soils. Pipe, joints, fittings, valves, and fire hydrants shall conform to ANSI/NSF Standard 61, and applicable sections of AWWA Standards C104-A21.4-08 through C550-05 and C900-07 through C950-07. No used materials may be reused.
Size.
The City Engineer must approve the sizes of all proposed drinking water lines. The minimum size of drinking water pipe is 8 inch diameter for main lines and 1 inch diameter for services. Acceptable diameters for services lines are 1", 1.5", 2", 4", 6" and 8".
Location.
Drinking water mains shall be located on either the north or east sides of a street 10 feet from the centerline. See standard drawings for utility locations.
Unusual Piping and Plumbing.
Special and unusual piping and plumbing for equipment or structures are treated as separate items and are not included in these standards. They shall be approved by the City Engineer.
4.39.40.020 Installation
General.
Drinking water distribution and transmission systems shall be installed according to the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 11 00 (Water Distribution and Transmission), with two exceptions:
Installed pipe shall be pressure tested and leakage tested in accordance with AWWA Standard C600-10.
Where water lines do not have at least 10 feet horizontal separation and 18 inches of vertical separation above a sewer line, an exception to the rule needs to be granted from the Division of Drinking Water. When a new sewer force main crosses under an existing water main, all portions of the sewer force main within 10 feet (horizontally) of the water main shall be enclosed in a continuous sleeve. When a new water main crosses over an existing sewer force main, the water main shall be constructed of pipe materials with a minimum rated working pressure of 200 psi or equivalent pressure rating. PVC pipe shall also be installed according to the requirements and specifications of AWWA C605. Under no circumstances shall the pipe or accessories be dropped into the trench. There shall be no physical cross connections between the distribution system and pipe, pumps, hydrants, or tanks that may bet contaminated from any source, including pressurized irrigation.
Drinking water distribution and or transmission lines shall not be installed within 10' of any footing, foundation or pad of a structure.
Pipe Cleanliness.
All foreign matter or dirt shall be removed from the inside of the pipe before it is placed and it shall be kept clean during and after laying. No debris, tools, or other materials shall be placed in the pipe during laying operations. When laying of pipe is not in progress, the pipe shall be closed by a water-tight plug.
Identification Tape.
All drinking water mains shall be installed with identification tape that meets the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 20 (Backfilling Trenches). Tape shall be buried 12 inches below grade.
Tracer Wire.
14 AWG direct bury red or blue tracer wire required on all water main lines and service lines.

All water line pipes shall include a 14 AWG solid direct bury red or blue wire. The Tracer wire shall be installed and secured to the top of the pipe. Use poly tape to secure wire at all joints and 5 foot intervals. The tracer wire shall extend 24" above the surface at each fire hydrant. The tracer wire shall also be installed (taped in 5' intervals) on all service lines. DO NOT run tracer wire up valve boxes. Any splicing of tracer wire shall use a 3M Direct Bury Splice Kit and be tested for continuity. Entire length of tracer wire shall be tested and approved prior to paving.

Tape tracer wire to corp stop. If mainline has tracer wire, splice and connect service wire with 3M Direct Bury Splice Kit to main line tracer wire. Wires are to be run into each meter box with enough wire to extend 24" above grade.

Wire is to extend 24" above the finished grader at the base of the fire hydrants. The tracer wire shall be housed in a 1-1/2" x 24" PVC pipe located 6" in front of the fire hydrant. The 1-1/2" PVC will extend 2" above grade (concrete apron) and shall have a slip cap. DO NOT GLUE THE CAP ON!

Lateral Displacement.
All pipes shall be protected from lateral displacement resulting from impact or unbalanced loading during backfilling operations.
Restraining.
Either thrust blocks or mechanical restraining devices shall be used for all tees, valves, plugs, caps and bends. Restraining shall be accomplished according to the standard drawings.
Connections to Existing Drinking Water Lines.
The Contractor will be responsible to verify actual size, type of material and location of existing utilities in the field. The fittings and materials required for construction must be approved by the City Engineer. 

Tapping tees may only be installed when authorized by the City Engineer and when the existing main is at least one size larger than the proposed intersecting line.
Surface Water Crossings.
If a surface water crossing is proposed, the following shall apply: The pipe shall be adequately supported and anchored, protected from damage and freezing, and accessible for repair or replacement. For underwater crossings, a minimum cover of 2 feet or greater, as local conditions may dictate, shall be provided over the pipe. When crossing water courses that are greater than 15 feet in width, the following shall be provided:
Pipe with joints shall be of special construction, having restrained joints for joints within the surface water course and flexible restrained joints at both edges of the water course.
Isolating valves shall be provided on both sides of the water crossing at locations not subject to high ground water or flooding, so that the section can be isolated for testing or repair.
A means shall be provided, such as a sampling tap, not subject to flooding, to allow for representative water quality testing on the upstream and downstream side of the crossing.
A means shall be provided to pressure test the underground water crossing pipe.
Transmission Lines.
Transmission lines shall conform to all applicable requirements in this rule. Transmission line design shall minimize unpressurized flows. A water system shall not install an unpressurized transmission line less than 20 feet from a concentrated source of pollution (e.g., septic tanks and drain fields, garbage dumps, pit privies, sewer lines, feed lots, etc.). Furthermore, unpressurized transmission lines shall not be placed in boggy areas or areas subject to the ponding of water.
4.39.40.030 Pipe And Fittings
Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe (PVC).
PVC pipe shall meet the standards and specifications of APWA 33 05 07 (Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe), AWWA C900 and C905. Only blue or white, SDR-18 pressure class 150 psi PVC pipe may be used for drinking water mains.
Ductile Iron Pipe.
Ductile iron pipe shall meet the standards and specifications of APWA 33 05 05 (Ductile Iron Pipe). Only a pressure class of 150 psi or larger may be used. A tubular black polyethylene encasement must be installed according to AWWA C105 over all ductile iron pipe and fittings. Flanges, when required, shall meet the requirements and specifications of AWWA C115

Polyethylene Pipe.
Polyethylene pipe shall meet the standards and specifications of APWA 33 05 06 (Polyethylene Pipe) and AWWA C906 which includes NSF-61 certification.

Steel Pipe - Lined and Coated.
Steel pipe shall meet the standards and specifications of APWA 33 05 09 (Steel Pipe - Lined and Coated).
Fittings.
Use Ductile Iron fittings that conform to the provisions of ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 or C153/A21.53 unless otherwise recommended by the manufacturer and authorized by the City Engineer. All PVC pipe being inserted into fittings shall have the bevel end removed. All the bolts and nuts of all fittings shall be greased. All fittings shall have an 8 mil vinyl wrap plastic cover.

Minimum pressure Class will be 250 for pipes larger than 12 inch diameter. Pipes of 12 inch diameter and smaller shall be pressure Class 350.

Flow Requirements for Flushing

Pipe Diameter	Flow in Gallons Per Minute
4 inch	100
6 inch	220
8 inch	390
10 inch	610
12 inch	880
16 inch	1567
18 inch	1980
20 inch	2450
24 inch	3525
30 inch	5507


4.39.40.040 Valves And Couplings
General.
All valves shall meet the requirements of APWA 33 11 00 (Water Distribution and Transmission) and APWA 3 12 16 (Water Valves). Sufficient number of valves shall be provided on water mains so that inconvenience and sanitary hazards will be minimized during repairs. Valves shall be located at not more than 500 foot intervals in commercial districts and at not more than one block or 800 foot intervals in other districts. Where systems serve widely scattered customers and where future development is not expected, the valve spacing shall not exceed one mile.
Resilient Seated Gate Valve.
All valves on 4 inch to 10 inch drinking water mains shall be resilient seated gate valves. Valves shall also be of iron body have non-rising bronze stems and meet the following specifications:
Mechanical Joint.
When valves are Mechanical Joint, they shall be furnished with all necessary glands, followers, and bolts and nuts to complete installation.
Valve stems.
Bronze valve stems shall be interchangeable with stems of the double disc valves of the same size, direction of opening and manufacture.
Butterfly Valve.
All valves 12 inches and larger shall be butterfly valves which meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 11 00 (Water Distribution and Transmission) and APWA 33 12 16 (Water Valves) and the following specifications:
General.
Valve bodies shall be cast iron, ASTM A-126 Class B. Body ends shall be flanged with facing and drilling in accordance with ANSI B16.1. Class 125; or mechanical joint in accordance with AWWA C111. All mechanical joint end valves shall be furnished complete with joint accessories (bolts, nuts, gaskets, and glands). All valves shall conform to AWWA Standard C-504, Table 3, Laying Lengths for Flanged Valves and Minimum Body Shell Thickness for all Body Types.
Disc.
Valve disc shall be ductile iron ASTM A-536, grade 65-45-12. Valve disc shall be of the offset design providing 360 degree uninterrupted seating.
Shaft Bearings.
Shaft bearings shall be contained in the integral hubs of the valve body and shall be self-lubricated sleeve type.
Coating. All valves shall be coated with epoxy in conformance to AWWA Standard C-515, latest revision. Interior wetted ferrous surfaces shall be coated a nominal 10 mils thick for long life; and body exterior shall have a minimum of 3 to 4 mils coating thickness in order to provide superior base for field-applied finish coats.
Valve Boxes.
Valves shall be bolted to the cross in the intersection of streets as a cluster valve set. Earth fill shall be carefully tamped around the valve box to a distance of 4 feet on all sides of the box, or to the undisturbed trench face if less than 4 feet.

All top of valve boxes located in streets shall be installed 1/4 inch below grade. When a 1 inch overlay is required a year after the road construction, the pavement surrounding the valve box shall be neatly cut to form a 30 inch round opening with the valve box centered, and a 1/2 road concrete collar shall be cast around the box 1/4 inch below grade and the valve box set 1/2 inch below grade. Valve boxes in off-road areas shall extend 6 inches above grade. Lid detail shall be similar to Comco C-6517.
Couplings.
Couplings shall be equal to the product of Smith-Blair or Dresser with cast iron couplings being used on all cast iron and PVC pipe. Couplings shall be of the straight, transition, or reducing style as required by the specific installation. All steel fittings and bolts shall be coated with a non-oxide coating and wrapped with polyethylene.
Pressure Regulation Valves.
Pressure regulation valves (PRV) which are required in a development shall be designed by the Developers engineer and the design shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and approval prior to starting construction. All PRV's shall be Cla-Val with a 4" bypass or approved by the City Engineer, be placed in a concrete vault and have telemetry included.
Tapping Valves.
Tapping valves may only be used when approved by the City Engineer. Tapping saddles with an "O" ring may be used if the drinking water main line to be tapped is larger than the new drinking water main line. Where the tap is the same size as the existing main, cast iron or stainless steel tapping sleeves shall be used, which encase the full perimeter of the pipe. The valve shall be a tapping valve with a guide lip on the flanged side. The opposite side of the valve shall have a mechanical joint connection.
Air, Vacuum and Release Valves.
Combination air, vacuum and release valves shall be installed according to the standard drawings at high points in the system as required by the City Engineer.
Backflow Devices.
Installation of backflow devices shall conform to the State-adopted plumbing code.
4.39.40.050 Fire Hydrants
General.
Fire hydrants shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 12 19 (Hydrants). All fire hydrants shall be Waterous WB-67 or approved equivalent and red in color. They shall have a 5 1/4 inch barrel diameter and 6 inch mechanical joint connection. The six inch gate valve will be mechanical joint by flange connected to the main line tee. The valve box complete for 4 foot 6 inch trench with lid that read "FIRE" with one 4 1/2 inch streamer nozzle and two 2 1/2 inch hose nozzles. Hydrants shall be frost proof. The threads shall be National Standard Fire Hose Thread. Spacing of fire hydrants shall be according to the International Fire Code or the local fire code official, and be capable of providing fire flow amount determined by the local fire code official. An adequate number of hydrants or blow-offs shall be provided to allow periodic flushing and cleaning of water lines.
Placement and Location.
Fire hydrant location to be determined by the City Engineer. Fire hydrants shall be set vertical and held in place by adequate concrete blocking which shall be left in the trench. Hydrants shall be set at a height that will allow approximately 2 inches exposed between the finished ground and the sidewalk flange. A gravel filled drip area shall be provided. See standard drawing for fire hydrants.

The relocation of fire hydrants shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 11 11 (Relocate Water Meters and Fire Hydrants) and related sections.
4.39.40.060 Meters And Services
General.
See the standard drawings for drinking water services. The minimum size of new drinking water service lines is 1 inch. All drinking water services to be installed in 48" manhole cone sections see standard drawing. All drinking water services shall have dual check valves. Drinking water services shall extend 14 feet beyond the back of sidewalk until connected to a building. Valve boxes, meter boxes, and other vaults or manholes containing valves, blow-offs, meters, or other such appurtenances to a distribution system, shall not be connected directly to a storm drain or sanitary sewer, and shall be provided with a drain to daylight if possible. Where this is not possible gravel sumps may be used if the site is not subject to flooding and conditions will assure adequate drainage. Sump pumps may also be considered if a drain to daylight or sump is not feasible.
Placement and Location.
All meter boxes shall have their location and grade staked prior to installation. No meter boxes shall be set in sidewalks or driveways. All meters must have a 48" precast concrete manhole section with D&L A-1180-71I or approved equivalent manhole fame and lid that reads water.  Service taps shall be a minimum of 24 inches or 1.5x's main line diameter of the end of pipe.

Service laterals shall extend perpendicular from the main to the meter box. If a meter must be moved it may only be displaced a maximum of 24 inches to either side. If it must be moved more than 24 inches, a new service line must be installed. When a new service line is installed the old corporation stop shall be shut off at the main and the old service line cut two feet from the main. 

Drinking water service lines shall meet the separation from sanitary sewer requirements in this chapter. Drinking water services shall extend 14 feet beyond the back of sidewalk and plugged until connected to a building.

The relocations of drinking water meters shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 11 11 (Relocate Water Meters and Fire Hydrants) and related sections. Services 1 inch and larger shall be polyethylene pipe conforming to the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 06 (Polyethylene Pipe). Only CTS SDR9 200 psi blue polyethylene pipe shall be used for service lines. All connection shall have stainless steel stiffeners. Pipe damaged by scratches, cuts, kinks, or buckled areas shall not be installed. Deflection in joints shall meet manufacturer's specifications and shall be approved by the City Engineer, or shall be replaced with the proper fitting.
Meters.
All meters shall be paid for by the Contractor and supplied by the City. Meter boxes shall be in good repair. They shall not be set at an angle, crushed, or dented. The inside of boxes must be free from obstructions such as dirt, rocks or debris.
4.39.40.070 Flushing
General.
All drinking water lines shall be flushed after the high chlorine test and prior to the pressure test. See Chapter 39.25. Testing and Inspection for testing information. Flushing shall be accomplished through hydrants and at the end each line.

Where dead-end mains occur, they shall be provided with a fire hydrant if flow and pressure are sufficient, or with an approved flushing hydrant or blow-off for flushing purposes. Flushing devices shall be sized to provide flows that will give a velocity of at least 2.5 fps in the water main being flushed. No flushing devices shall be directly connected to a sewer.
Velocity.
The Contractor shall install a tap sufficient in size to provide for 2 1/2 foot per second flushing velocity in the line. The following is the flow quantity required to provide a 2 1/2 foot per second flushing velocity.
Pollutants.
All non-storm water substances must be removed before any water used for flushing can enter the storm drain system. Flushing into the storm drain system will require a storm water pollution prevention plan, including a UPDES permit issued by the state of Utah.

Flow Requirements for Flushing

Pipe Diameter in
Inches	Flow in Gallons per
Minute
4 inch	100
6 inch	220
8 inch	390
10 inch	610
12 inch	880
16 inch	1567
18 inch	1980
20 inch	2450
24 inch	3525
30 inch	5507


4.39.40.080 Disinfection Of Drinking Water Lines
Cleaning.
The pipe shall be clean prior to disinfection. If in the opinion of the City, contamination is such that it cannot be removed by flushing, the pipe shall be cleaned by mechanical means and then swabbed with a 1% hypochlorite disinfection solution.
Methods.
All drinking water pipeline shall be disinfected as outlined in AWWA C651 by one of the following methods:
Tablet Method.
The tablet method shall consist of placing calcium hypochlorite tablets at the specified rate in the main during construction at the upstream end of each section of pipe. The tablet shall be attached with an adhesive, such as Permatex No. 1 or equivalent as approved by the City Engineer. The line shall then be filled slowly (velocities less than 1 ft/sec), expelling all air pockets and maintaining the disinfection solution in the line for at least 24 hours, 48 hours if the water temperature is less than 41 degrees Fahrenheit. The disinfection solution shall have a concentration of at least 25 mg/l of available chlorine.

Continuous Feed Method.
The continuous feed shall be done exactly as outlined in AWWA C651 and shall have a twenty-five mg/l available Chlorine after 24 hours.

Under both methods the Contractor shall not be allowed to flush the line until the chlorine residual test has been passed by the City. If necessary drinking water lines shall be re-chlorinated until satisfactory bacteriological testing is obtained. See Chapter 39.25. Testing and Inspection for testing information.
4.39.45 Pressurized Irrigation
4.39.45.010 General
4.39.45.020 Installation
4.39.45.030 Pipe And Fittings
4.39.45.040 Valves And Couplings
4.39.45.050 Meters, Boxes And Services
4.39.45.060 Flushing


4.39.45.010 General
Specifications.
These specifications cover the installation of pressurized irrigation lines. See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. See standard drawings related to pressurized irrigation.
Pipe.
Polyvinyl Chloride (PVC) pipe shall be used for all pressurized irrigation mains 12 inches in diameter and smaller unless otherwise authorized by the City Engineer. Ductile iron, PVC, or polyethylene pipe shall be used for pressurized irrigation mains larger than 12 inches in diameter as approved by the City Engineer. Only PVC or polyethylene pipe may be used in corrosive soils.
Size.
The City Engineer must approve the sizes of all proposed pressurized irrigation lines. The minimum size of pressurized irrigation pipe is 6 inch diameter for main lines and 1 inch diameter for services. Acceptable service line sizes are 1", 2", 4", 6", and 8". A dual service shall be 1 1/2" to the service tee for residential only.
Location.
Pressurized irrigation mains shall be located on either the south or west sides of a street 5 feet from the centerline. See standard drawings for utility locations.
Unusual Piping and Plumbing.
Special and unusual piping and plumbing for equipment or structures are treated as separate items and are not included in these standards.

Tapping tees may only be installed when authorized by the City Engineer and when the existing main is at least one size smaller than the proposed main.
4.39.45.020 Installation
General.
Pressurized irrigation distribution and transmission systems shall be installed according to the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 11 00 (Water Distribution and Transmission). PVC pipe shall also be installed according to the requirements and specifications of AWWA C605.
Pipe Cleanliness.
All foreign matter or dirt shall be removed from the inside of the pipe before it is placed and it shall be kept clean during and after laying. No debris, tools, or other materials shall be placed in the pipe during laying operations. When laying of pipe is not in progress, the pipe shall be closed by a water-tight plug.
Minimum Cover.
All pressurized irrigation mains shall have a minimum cover of 2 feet to the top of the pipe.
Identification Tape.
All pressurized irrigation mains shall be installed with identification tape that meets the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 20 (Backfilling Trenches). Tape shall be buried 12 inches below grade.
Tracer Wire.
14 AWG direct bury red or blue tracer wire required on all pressurized irrigation main lines and service lines.

All pressurized irrigation line pipes shall include a 14 AWG solid direct bury red or blue wire. The Tracer wire shall be installed and secured to the top of the pipe including main and service lines. Use poly tape to secure wire at all joints and 5 foot intervals. DO NOT run tracer wire up valve boxes. Any splicing of tracer wire shall use a 3M Direct Bury Splice Kit and be tested for continuity. Entire length of tracer wire shall be tested and approved prior to paving.

Tape tracer wire to corp stop. If mainline has tracer wire, splice and connect service wire with 3M Direct Bury Splice Kit to main line tracer wire. Wires are to be run into each meter box with enough wire to extend 24" above grade.

Lateral Displacement.
All pipes shall be protected from lateral displacement resulting from impact or unbalanced loading during backfilling operations.
Restraining.
Either thrust blocks or mechanical restraining devices shall be used for all tees, valves, plugs, caps and bends. Restraining shall be accomplished according to the standard drawings.
Connections to Existing Pressurized Irrigation Lines.
The Contractor will be responsible to verify actual size, type of material and location of existing utilities in the field. The fittings and materials required for construction must be approved by the City Engineer.

Where fitting sizes, such as tees and crosses, are shown on the plans, those sizes will be used. However, no attempt has been made to show all needed fittings or materials.
4.39.45.030 Pipe And Fittings
Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe (PVC).
PVC pipe shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 07 (Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe) and AWWA C900 and C905. Only purple, SDR-18 pressure class 150 psi pipe may be used for pressurized irrigation mains.
Ductile Iron Pipe.
Ductile iron pipe shall meet the standards and specifications of APWA 33 05 05 (Ductile Iron Pipe). Only a pressure class of 150 psi or larger may be used. A tubular purple polyethylene encasement must be installed according to AWWA C105 over all ductile iron pipe and fittings. Flanges, when required, shall meet the requirements and specifications of AWWA C115. Ductile iron may be directed tapped for the use of corporation stops.
Polyethylene Pipe.
Polyethylene pipe shall meet the standards and specifications of APWA 33 05 06 (Polyethylene Pipe).
Steel Pipe - Lined and Coated.
Steel pipe shall meet the standards and specifications of APWA 33 05 09 (Steel Pipe - Lined and Coated).
Fittings.
Use Ductile Iron fittings that conform to the provisions of ANSI/AWWA C110/A21.10 or C153/A21.53 unless otherwise recommended by the manufacturer and authorized by the City Engineer. All PVC pipe being inserted into fittings shall have the bevel end removed. All the bolts and nuts of all fittings shall be greased. All fittings shall have an 8 mil vinyl wrap plastic cover.
4.39.45.040 Valves And Couplings
General.
All valves shall meet the requirements of APWA 33 11 00 (Water Distribution and Transmission) and APWA 33 12 16 (Water Valves).
Resilient Seated Gate Valve.
All valves on 4 inch to 10 inch water mains shall be resilient seated gate valves. Valves shall also be of iron body have non-rising bronze stems and meet the following specifications:
Mechanical Joint.
When valves are Mechanical Joint, they shall be furnished with all necessary glands, followers, and bolts and nuts to complete installation.
Valve Stems.
Bronze valve stems shall be interchangeable with stems of the double disc valves of the same size, direction of opening and manufacture.
Butterfly Valve.
All valves 12 inches and larger shall be butterfly valves which meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 11 00 (Water Distribution and Transmission) and APWA 33 12 16 (Water Valves) and the following specifications:
General.
Valve bodies shall be cast iron, ASTM A-126 Class B. Body ends shall be flanged with facing and drilling in accordance with ANSI B16.1, Class 125; or mechanical joint end valves shall be furnished complete with joint accessories (bolts, nuts, gaskets, and glands). All valves shall conform to AWWA Standard C-504, Table 3, Laying Lengths for Flanged Valves and Minimum Body Shell Thickness for all Body Types.
Disc.
Valve disc shall be ductile iron ASTM A-536, grade 65-45-12. Valve disc shall be of the offset design providing 360 degree uninterrupted seating.
Shaft Bearings.
Shaft bearings shall be contained in the integral hubs of the valve body and shall be self-lubricated sleeve type.
Coating.
All valves shall be coated with epoxy in conformance to AWWA Standard C-550, latest revision. Interior wetted ferrous surfaces shall be coated a nominal 10 mils thick for long life; and body exterior shall have a minimum of 3 to 4 mils coating thickness in order to provide superior base for field-applied finish coats.
Valve Boxes.
All buried valves shall be installed complete with two-piece, cast iron, slip type, 5-1/4-inch shaft valve box with drop lid. The lid shall have the word "IRRIGATION" of "DRAIN" according to the standard drawing cast in the metal.

Valves and valve boxes shall be installed where shown on the drawings. Valves and valve boxes shall be set plumb. Valve boxes shall be centered directly over the valve. Valves shall be aligned with property lines where possible. Earth fill shall be carefully tamped around the valve box to a distance of 4 feet on all sides of the box, or to the undisturbed trench face if less than 4 feet. Valves shall have the interiors cleaned of all foreign matter before installation.

All top of valve boxes located in streets shall be installed 1/4 inch below grade. When a 1 inch overly is required a year after the road construction, the pavement surrounding the valve box shall be neatly cut to form a 30 inch round opening with the valve box centered, and a concrete collar shall be cast around the box. Valve boxes in off-road areas shall extend 6 inches above grade. Lid detail shall be similar to Comco C-6517.
Couplings.
Couplings shall be equal to the product of Smith-Blair or Dresser with cast iron couplings being used on all cast iron and PVC pipe. Couplings shall be of the straight, transition, or reducing style as required by the specific installation. All steel fittings and bolts shall be coated with a non-oxide coating and wrapped with polyethylene.
Pressure Regulation Valves.
Pressure regulation valves (PRV), which are required in a development, shall be designed by the Developers engineer and the design shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and approval prior to starting construction. All PRV's shall be Cla-Val with a 4" bypass, be placed in a concrete vault and have telemetry included.
Tapping Valves.
Tapping valves may only be used when approved the City Engineer. Tapping saddles with an "O" ring may be used if the water main line to be tapped is larger than the new water main line. Where the tap is the same size as the existing main, cast iron or stainless steel tapping sleeves shall be used, which encase the full perimeter of the pipe. The valve shall be a tapping valve with a guide lip on the flanged side. The opposite side of the valve shall have a mechanical joint connection.
Air, Vacuum and Release Valves.
Combination air, vacuum and release valves shall be installed according to the standard drawings at high points in the system as required by the City.
4.39.45.050 Meters, Boxes And Services
General.
See the standard drawings for pressurized irrigation services. All pressurized irrigation services to be installed in 48" manhole cone sections see standard drawing. The minimum size of new pressurized irrigation service lines is 1 inch for single service and 1 1/2" for dual service. Pressurized irrigation services shall be installed after electric services and shall sit on the opposite side of the lot from any electric type boxes.
Placement and Location.
All meters and boxes shall have their location and grade staked prior to installation. No meters or boxes shall be set in sidewalks or driveways. Driveways are to be considered directly perpendicular with the garage door and extending two feet from both sides of the garage door running directly to the street. Unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer or designee. Service taps shall be a minimum of 36 inches apart. No taps will be allowed within 36 inches of the end of the pipe.

Service laterals shall extend perpendicular from the main to the meter or box. For dual pressurized irrigation services, laterals shall extend perpendicular from the main to the tee.

If a meter must be moved it may only be displaced a maximum of 24 inches to either side. If it must be moved more than 24 inches, a new service line must be installed unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
Meters and Boxes.
All meters shall be paid for by the developer and purchased by the City. Meter boxes and pressurized irrigation boxes shall be in good repair. They shall not be set at an angle, crushed, or dented. The inside of boxes must be free from obstructions such as dirt, rocks or debris. Meters shall be installed by the Developer or Contractor.
Polyethylene Pipe.
Only CTS SDR9 200 psi purple polyethylene pipe shall be used for pressurized irrigation service lines. Pipe damaged by scratches, cuts, kinks or buckled areas shall not be installed.

The bottom of trench shall be flat with no hollows, no lumps and no rock. If these conditions do not occur pipe must be bedded in coarse sand. No rocks shall be allowed within six inches of pipe.

Pipe shall be cut with either a wheel or scissor type tubing cutter with a blade specifically designed for plastic. Cuts shall be square and clean. Cutter manufacturer instructions shall be followed when cutting pipe. All connections shall have stainless steel stiffeners.

There shall be no unnecessary bending of pipe. Taps shall be exactly horizontal to the pressurized irrigation main. If bending cannot be avoided maximum bending radius shall be 25 times the pipe diameter. There shall be no bending within 3 feet of a fixed point and no "S" shape curves.
4.39.45.060 Flushing
General.
All pressurized irrigation lines shall be flushed before placed in service. Flushing shall be accomplished through the end of each line.
Velocity.
The Contractor shall install a tap sufficient in size to provide for 2 1/2 feet per second flushing velocity in the line. The following is the flow quantity required to provide a 2 1/2 foot per second flushing velocity.
Pollutants.
All non-storm water substances must be removed before any water used for flushing can enter the storm drain system. Flushing into the storm drain system will require a storm water pollution prevention plan, including a UPDES permit issued by the state of Utah.

Flow Requirements for Flushing

Pipe Diameter	Flow in Gallons per
Minute
4 inch	100
6 inch	220
8 inch	390
10 inch	610
12 inch	880
16 inch	1567
18 inch	1980
20 inch	2450
24 inch	3525
30 inch	5507


4.39.50 Sanitary Sewer
4.39.50.010 General
4.39.50.020 Pipe And Fittings
4.39.50.030 Services

Specifications.
Sanitary sewer facilities shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 31 00 (Sanitary Sewerage Systems). These specifications cover the installation of sanitary sewer lines. See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. See standard drawings related to sanitary sewers.
Pipe.
All sanitary sewer pipe 12 inches in diameter and larger shall be tripe wall Corrugated Polypropylene or approved equivalent unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. All other sanitary sewer pipe shall be constructed with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe.
Size.
The City Engineer must approve the sizes of all proposed sanitary sewer lines. Minimum size of pipe is 8 inch diameter for main lines and 4 inch diameter for services.
Location.
Sanitary Sewer mains shall be located on either the south or west sides of a street 5 feet from curb unless otherwise authorized by the Public Works Director. A maximum of 500 feet of pipe shall be allowed between manholes.
Minimum Slopes.
Slopes shall be designed to have a 2 foot per second velocity unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. The following table lists minimum slopes for sanitary sewer for each size of pipe:

Minimum Sanitary Sewer Slopes

Pipe Diameter
(inches)	Minimum Slope (%)
4	2.000
6	1.000
8	0.334
10	0.248
12	0.194
14	0.158
15	0.144
16	0.132
18	0.113
21	0.092
24	0.077
27	0.066
30	0.057
36	0.045
48	0.031
54	0.027
60	0.023


Sanitary Sewer Lift Stations.
Sanitary sewer lift stations which are required in a development shall be designed by the Developer's engineer and the design shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review prior to starting construction. Lift stations will be the wet well/dry well type, will have standby power, proper ventilation, telemetry, and will be designed for large areas, not individual subdivisions.
Unusual Piping and Plumbing.
Special and unusual piping and plumbing for equipment or structures are treated as separate items and are not included in these standards.
Manhole Lining.
Pre-cast polymer manholes shall be used, or manholes shall be lined using an epoxy coating or polyurea coating at force main tie into gravity sewer and the immediate downstream manhole.

Effective February 2021

4.39.50.010 General
Specifications.
Sanitary sewer facilities shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 31 00 (Sanitary Sewerage Systems). These specifications cover the installation of sanitary sewer lines. See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. See standard drawings related to sanitary sewers.
Size.
The City Engineer must approve the sizes of all proposed sanitary sewer lines. Minimum size of pipe is 8 inch diameter for main lines and 4 inch diameter for services.
Location.
Sanitary Sewer mains shall be located on either the south or west sides of a street 5 feet from curb unless otherwise authorized by the Public Works Director. Sanitary Sewer mains shall not be installed within 10' of any footing, foundation or pad of any structure. A maximum of 500 feet of pipe shall be allowed between manholes.
Minimum Slopes.
Slopes shall be designed to have a 2 foot per second velocity unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. The following table lists minimum slopes for sanitary sewer for each size of pipe:

Minimum Sanitary Sewer Slopes

Pipe Diameter
(inches)	Minimum Slope (%)
4	2.000
6	1.000
8	0.334
10	0.248
12	0.194
14	0.158
15	0.144
16	0.132
18	0.113
21	0.092
24	0.077
27	0.066
30	0.057
36	0.045
48	0.031
54	0.027
60	0.023


Sanitary Sewer Lift Stations.
Sanitary sewer lift stations which are required in a development shall be designed by the Developer's engineer and the design shall be submitted to the City Engineer and wastewater division for review and approval prior to starting construction. City owned lift stations will be the wet well/dry well type, will have standby power, proper ventilation, telemetry, a flow meter, and will be designed for large areas, not individual subdivisions unless approved otherwise by the Wastewater Division Manager. Building permit and inspections shall be required.
Unusual Piping and Plumbing.
Special and unusual piping and plumbing for equipment or structures are treated as separate items and are not included in these standards.
Manholes.
Sanitary sewer manhole sizing shall be determined by a designee of the sewer department. Sizing will be determined on depth, size of pipe and pipe angle.

Generally use 4' ID manholes for main lines less than 15" in diameter, 5' ID manholes for main lines 15" to 30" in diameter, and 6' ID manholes for main lines greater than 30" in diameter.

5' ID manholes are required in the following situations:

At all intersections of 3 or more 8-inch or larger pipe lines.

All 90 degrees or greater manholes.

In manholes greater than 15 feet deep.

In manholes with a grade greater than 20% through the manhole.

Manholes on trunk lines 12" in diameter or greater shall be HDPE lined manholes, precast polymer manholes, epoxy coated or polyurea coated to prevent corrosion due to slower moving trunk lines.

Manhole Lining.
Pre-cast polymer manholes shall be used, or manholes shall be lined using an epoxy coating or polyurea coating at force main tie into gravity sewer and the immediate downstream manhole.
4.39.50.020 Pipe And Fittings
General.
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe, Corrugated Polypropylene per APWA 30 05 11, HDPE-Lined Reinforced Concrete Pipe meeting ASTM C76, or approved equivalent shall be used for all sanitary sewer lines larger than 18 inches in diameter. All other sanitary sewer lines shall be constructed with polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe.

Pipe buried more than 12 feet deep shall require manufacturing and engineering specifications to be submitted to the City Engineer for written approval.
Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe (PVC).
PVC pipe shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 07 (Polyvinyl Chloride Pipe) and shall have a minimum rating of SDR-35.
Corrugated Polypropylene.
Triple Wall Corrugated Polypropylene per APWA 33 05 11. Diameters up to 30 inches shall meet the requirements and specifications of ASTM F2764.
HDPE-Lined Reinforced Concrete Pipe.
Reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) lined with High-Density Polyethylene, which shall meet the minimum design requirements of Class III RCP as defined in ASTM C76. Pipe joints shall be weldless for diameters up to 60 inches. For diameters greater than 60 inches, in field welding is permitted. 
4.39.50.030 Services
General.
All sanitary sewer services shall be connected to existing sanitary sewer mains by use of an inline Y or approved equivalent Insert-a-Tee type connection, and shall be approved by the City Engineer. Sewer services shall extend 14 feet beyond the back of sidewalk and plugged until connected to a building. The minimum cover of sewer laterals is at 3'6" at the property line. One wastewater service lateral per unit unless otherwise authorized by the City Engineer.
Clean-outs.
There shall be no bend in a service line between the main line and the property line clean-out. A clean-out shall be installed on all service lines located at the property line according to Standard drawings. Clean-outs shall be installed every 75 feet on all service lines.
4.39.55 Storm, Land And Groundwater Drains
4.39.55.010 General
4.39.55.015 Design Standards And Regulations
4.39.55.020 Rainfall-Runoff Computation Methods Reference
4.39.55.025 Pipe And Fittings
4.39.55.030 Submittal Requirements
4.39.55.040 Retention/Detention Basins
4.39.55.050 Low Impact Development


4.39.55.010 General

The design guidelines include the design standards and regulations and hydrologic and hydraulic computation methods reference for evaluating and designing storm drain and flood control facilities in Spanish Fork City.




4.39.55.015 Design Standards And Regulations
Low Impact Development.
The MS4 permit for Spanish Fork City requires that new development or redevelopment projects that disturb greater than or equal to one acre, including projects less than one acre that are part of a larger common plan of development or sale to manage rainfall on-site, and prevent the off-site discharge of the precipitation from all rainfall events less than or equal to the 90th percentile rainfall event. Spanish Fork City has elected to change the 90th percentile rainfall event to the 25-year storm event with a duration and intensity that produces the largest storage requirement. A redevelopment project that would require LID is further defined as any project that increases the existing impervious area by 10% or more. The requirement includes the evaluation of a Low Impact Development (LID) approach which encourages the implementation of BMPs that infiltrate, evapotranspire or harvest and use storm water from the site to protect water quality (Small MS4 General Permit No. UTR090000). As Spanish Fork City  continues to develop and redevelop, LID practices will need to be implemented to comply with State and Federal regulations.

LID is a comprehensive approach to micromanaging storm water where it is generated. The goal of LID is to develop a storm water management strategy where post-development hydrologic conditions mimic pre-development conditions through utilizing storm water features that infiltrate and evapotranspire in a cost-effective, flexible manner. It also involves protecting water quality by treating and filtering storm water near the source, before it infiltrates into the ground.

LID practices focus on preventing flooding, erosion, and pollution by utilizing natural processes to filter, treat, and allow storm water to infiltrate into the ground. It typically preserves, restores, and creates green infrastructure using soils and vegetation. By implementing LID principles and practices, water can be managed in a way that reduces negative environmental impacts often associated with developed areas and promotes the natural movement of water within the area.

LID strategies include several techniques to generate less runoff from developed land. LID practice are flexible, offering a wide variety of techniques to reduce runoff timing and volume. LID practices control storm water runoff at the lot level, using a series of integrated strategies that rely on natural processes.

LID principles:
preserve and recreate natural landscape features
minimize directly-connected impervious area
comprehensive, landscape-based approached to sustainable development
utilize natural hydrologic functions and processes
focus on prevention, rather than mitigation
emphasize simple, low-tech, low cost methods
manage storm water runoff as close to the source as possible
minimize disturbance
increase drainage flow paths
utilize onsite filtering and treatment methods
Potential LID Features and Practices.
There are many practices that can be utilized when implementing LID principles. Some are listed below.
Xeriscape Swale/Grassy Swale - A swale landscaped with xeriscape plants or grass can be used to infiltrate storm water in place. Curb cuts along roads can be used to discharge storm water runoff generated in paved streets and parking lots into the swale.
Underground Storage Tanks - Underground storage can include R-tanks, Stormbrixx, StormTech systems, or other underground storage facilities that are designed to detain or retain storm water runoff and allow it to infiltrate into the ground. Underground storage facilities should have an overflow to a centralized storm drain system. Treatment should be included on any underground storage facility. See Section 4.78.12 for treatment criteria.
Rain Barrels - Some runoff can be captured in rain barrels and utilized for non-potable purposes. It is important to keep in mind that in Utah, only 2500 gallons per parcel of rain water runoff is allowed to be collected and stored onsite.
Roof Drains - Roof drains should be connected to grassy/xeriscape areas or underground facilities, such as infiltration trenches or dry wells. Infiltration trenches or dry wells consist of perforated manholes and pipe surrounded by gravel and a geotextile fabric. The purpose of the infiltration trench or dry well is to store water and allow it to percolate into the ground. It is important that the roof runoff be treated prior to infiltrating into the ground.
Grass Filter Strips - Grass Filter Strips are low-angled vegetated slopes that drain away from the parking lot or roadway.
Bioretention - Bioretention includes the use of vegetation and soils to clean storm water runoff in an earthen basin lined with plants and mulch.
Permeable Pavement - Permeable pavement could include grass pavers, paving stones, porous asphalt, or pervious concrete. It can be used on parking stalls, overflow parking, driveways, walkways and plazas.
Soil Amendments - In areas where native soils have low infiltration rates, the native soils can be amended by mixing in organics or other materials to increase infiltration capacity. Soil amendments can also improve water quality, depending on the materials added. It is important that the soil is not compacted during construction.
Preserve Vegetation - The natural vegetation of an area to be developed should be preserved by reducing the total impervious area for a site by clustering buildings close together, reducing building footprints, reducing road widths, and other methods to preserve as much of the native vegetation as is feasible for a given site.
Storm Water Planters - Storm water planters are boxes with drought resistant vegetation that are used to capture storm water runoff from roofs and other impervious surfaces. They function like bioretention on a small scale.

The concepts listed above do not represent all the approaches for implementing LID. Ultimately, the developer and their engineer are responsible to research the most effective methods for implementing LID practices on a development site. Additional resources to research, plan and design LID  are listed below:

Utah Department of Environmental Quality - Division of Water Quality. (Sept 2018) Michael Baker International. https://drive.google.com/open?id=1WWYjB5rovR-eObziXTyJrF7EN3xQ7pi2
MacAdams, James. Green Infrastructure for Southwestern Neighborhoods. (Oct 2012) Watershed Management Group. EPA Website. https://www.epa.gov/green-infrastructure/green-infrastructure-design-and-implementation

Dorman, T., M. Frey, J. Wright, B. Wardynski, J. Smith, B. Tucker, J. Riverson, A. Teague, and K. Bishop. 2013. San Antonio River Basin Low Impact Development Technical Design Guidance Manual, v1. San Antonio River Authority. San Antonio, TX. https://www.epa.gov/green-infrastructure/green-infrastructure-design-and-implementation

Environmental Protection Agency. (April 2009) Managing Stormwater with Low Impact Development Practices: Addressing Barriers to LID. EPA 901-F-09-003. 
https://www3.epa.gov/region1/npdes/stormwater/assets/pdfs/AddressingBarrier2LID.pdf

Environmental Protection Agency. (1995, November). Pollution Control Programs for Roads, Highways and Bridges. (EPA-841-F-95-008c). Office of Water. Washington, DC: Environmental Protection Agency. http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/education/control.html

Environmental Protection Agency. (2008, March 7). NPS Categories | Roads, Highways and Bridges | Polluted Runoff (Nonpoint Source Pollution) | US EPA. 
http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/roadshwys.html

Spanish Fork City. Low Impact Development. (Dec 2013). Project Engineering Consultants. http://www.spanishfork.org/dept/pubworks/utilities/storm/pdf/Low_Impact_Development_Report.pdf

National Cooperative Highway Research Program. Evaluation of Best Management Practices For Highway Runoff Control. Low Impact Development Design Manual for Highway Runoff Control. (2006). http://www.coralreef.gov/transportation/evalbmp.pdf

Drainage Plan Report.
As part of the Drainage Plan Report, the following criteria will need to be addressed.
LID Feasibly - All plans for LID facilities will need to be approved by the City prior to design. During the planning process, groundwater levels, percolation rates, source protection zones, and other concerns with subsurface conditions need to be considered. Site conditions such as collapsible soils, low percolation rates, wetlands, and high groundwater levels will limit the types of LID facilities that can be used. We encourage the developer and his engineer to be creative in developing innovative means to implement LID. If the developer believes that LID facilities cannot be utilized on their particular site, documentation will need to be submitted and approved by the City explaining the reasons why LID cannot be utilized. The documentation must illustrate infiltration, evapotranspiration and rainwater harvesting has been used to the maximum extend technically feasible and that full employment of LID facilities are not feasible due to site constraints.
Geotechnical Analysis - Prior to proceeding  with design, soils testing and an associated soils report need to be completed and submitted to the City to document subsurface conditions at each individual site. The geotechnical report must include (at a minimum) percolation rates, groundwater levels, and soil type (including whether the soils are collapsible). The geotechnical report is usually added to the Drainage Report as an appendix. 
Source Protection Zones - Some LID practices may not be appropriate in Zone 1 water source protection areas (Zone 1 Areas) because they require infiltration. Zone 1 Areas are defined as the "area within a 100-foot radius from the wellhead or margin of the collection area." (Utah State Code (R309-600-9)(2)(a)(i)). LID practices may be implemented in Zones 2, 3, and 4 water source protection areas (Zones 2, 3 and 4). However, LID facilities in Zones 2, 3, and 4 may require additional treatment at the discretion of the City. The drinking water source protection areas in Spanish Fork City can be found in the Drinking Water Master Plan.
Design Storm.
LID facilities in the City shall be designed to accommodate, at a minimum, the peak runoff rate and volume generated from a 25-year storm of any duration. Calculations will need to be completed and submitted to the City documenting the design parameters of the LID facilities. All detention shall detain a 25 year 24 hr. storm with a maximum 0.15 cfs per acre release rate. Release rates shall be determined by the City Engineer. All LID retention shall retain and infiltrate a 100 year 24 hr. All LID retention shall have an emergency overflow to a storm drain, collector street, or permanent ditch. 
Depth and Intensity.
Rainfall depth and intensity data shall be obtained from the National Weather Service's Precipitation Frequency Data Server (http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/sa/ut_pfds.html). We require each duration between the 5-minute storm and 24-hour storm to be analyzed to determine the peak volume requirement.
Detention Basins.
Detention facilities shall be designed to meet standard Drawing SD-411 and meet the following design criteria:
The discharge rate shall not to exceed of 0.15 cfs/acre
A minimum of 1 foot of freeboard shall be provided.
Side slope (see table below)

Depth	Slope
18"	2:1
3'	3:1
Above 3'	4:1

Provide a plan to maintain and monitor the facility.

Provide vehicular access to the facility.

All facilities shall be landscaped in accordance with City Standards.

Design an emergency overflow spillway to safely discharge runoff from the facility assuming the outlet is inoperable or the inflow exceeds the outlet capacity.

The storage facility maximum depth shall be approved by the City Engineer.

Detention basins may be constructed in landscape or parking areas. Maximum depth of water is 6 inches deep in commercial parking lots and 8 inches deep in industrial parking lots.

Each detention basin shall have an outlet to the City storm drain system. A trash rack shall be installed at the outlet(s) to prevent debris from entering the storm drain system.

Underground LID/Storage.
LID facilities that are designed to infiltrate storm water into the ground may be underground storage facilities. The underground facilities should be designed according to the following criteria:
All onsite LID facilities will be owned and maintained by the property owner, unless the City agrees otherwise. Any LID facilities in the right-of-way will be owned and maintained by Spanish Fork City after construction has been completed and approved by the City. The facilities will need to be designed in a way that allows the City to access and maintain them.
The property owner is required to work with the City's SWMPAdministrator to create a Long Term Storm Water Management Plan (LTSMP) and follow its requirements.
Underground facilities will need to be designed to retain a 25-year storm event. They will also need to be designed to drain in less than 48 hours, unless approved by the City. Only infiltration through the bottom of the LID can count towards volume requirement reduction.

The underground storage facility will need to be connected to a storm drain trunkline or a City street as an overflow.

Treatment will need to be included prior to discharging to the underground storage/infiltration facilities. Treatment will need to meet the criteria defined in section 4.78.12.

All underground storage cells shall be wrapped in an approved non-woven filter fabric.

Underground storage and infiltration shall be installed under the bioretention swales as shown in the City standard drawings. R-Tank, StormTech chambers, or approved equivalent shall be used to provide underground storage. R-Tank and StormTech chambers shall be installed per the manufacturers specifications. All underground storage cells shall be wrapped in an approved non-woven filter fabric.

All landscaping in LID areas shall be designed and installed per City standard drawings and specifications.

LID cannot be installed at a low point without an outlet or spillway to a storm drain, permanent ditch or arterial roadway.

Manholes and Clean-out Structures.
A manhole or clean-out structure shall be located at the upstream end of the storm drain pipe and at all changes in pipe size, horizontal alignment, slope and material of the storm sewer.

Maximum horizontal distance between manholes is 500 feet.

Roadway Drainage.
Roads must provide for routing of the 100-year flood discharge to adequate downstream conveyance facilities.
The 100-year flood flows in streets should be contained within street right-of-way.

Provision shall be made to allow runoff within the street to enter any downstream detention basins or other such facilities.

Downhill cul-de-sacs and dead ends will not be allowed unless specifically approved by the City Engineer.

Special consideration shall be given to downhill 'T' intersections to ensure that flooding will not occur outside of the right-of-way.

Inlets and Outlets.
A concrete apron shall be constructed around inlets to allow sediment to be easily cleaned up.
Storm drain pipe that discharges to an earth-lined channel shall be stabilized to mitigate erosion potential.
Storm drain catch basins or inlets shall generally be located on both sides of the street.
Inlet spacing shall also be designed to meet the design spread requirements from the FHA Urban Drainage Manual as shown in Table 4-1.
As a general rule, inlets shall be installed at intervals not to exceed 500 feet. Inlet spacing shall be addressed during the design phase.

Design Gutter Spread

Street Classification	Design Frequency	Design Gutter Spread
High Volume
< 45 MPH	10-Year	Shoulder plus
3 feet
< 45 MPH	10-Year	Shoulder
Sag Point	50-Year	Shoulder plus
3 feet

Collector

< 45 MPH	10-Year	1/2 Driving
Lane
> 45 MPH	10-Year	Shoulder
Sag Point	10-Year	1/2 Driving
Lane
Local Streets	10-Year	1/2 Driving
Lane


Storm Water Treatment.
Storm water treatment for oil, grease and other pollutants shall be provided at all sites with more than 6 parking spaces.

Engineer design and calculations shall be submitted showing the effectiveness of the treatment.

Provide a maintenance plan for the storm water treatments facility.

Culverts.

The minimum culvert size is 24 inches.

Culverts shall be designed to convey the 100-year flood event without overtopping the road.

A culvert blockage factor of 50 percent shall be used for culverts placed in drainages with upstream debris producing potential as determined by the City.

Backwater surface computations upstream of culverts shall be performed and shown to be non-damaging to upstream properties.

Improvements must be installed at entrance and exit structures to minimize erosion and accommodate maintenance.

Bridges.

Bridges must pass the 100-year flood event with a minimum of 2 feet of freeboard.

Local and regional scour analyses shall be performed on the structure, upstream and downstream. All potential scour shall be properly mitigated.

Open Channels.
Open channels shall be designed to meet the following criteria:

Convey the 100-year flood event with a minimum freeboard of 1 foot.

Have low maintenance requirements.

Provide maintenance access through easements the entire channel length.

Side slope of 2H:1V or flatter.

Bank stabilization shall be designed to minimize erosion and maintenance.

Irrigation ditches located in areas of new development shall be enclosed (pipe or culvert).

Floodplains.
Development near the Spanish Fork River shall be in accordance with the National Flood Insurance Program and the City's Flood Damage Prevention ordinance (See Chapter 20 of Municipal Code Title 15).

The Flood Damage Ordinance requires, among other things:

A bank stability/erosion hazard analysis shall be performed by a licensed professional engineer (15.4.20.030 C.5).

A geotechnical report shall be prepared that includes (15.1.20.040 A.2.b):

At least one measurement of the ambient groundwater surface elevation on the site of proposed development collected between May 1 and May 31.

An engineer's estimate of the maximum anticipated groundwater elevation anticipated on the site during periods of flooding on the Spanish Fork River, referencing nearby base flood elevations on the current FIRM and all other available sources.

An engineer's recommendations with regard to the lowest elevations(s) that the lowest floor(s) (including basements) of all new and substantially improved structures should be constructed to be protected from flooding from groundwater and groundwater that could be influenced by surface water during periods of flooding..
The lowest finished floor (including basement), shall be elevated a minimum of two feet above the base flood elevation (15.4.20.040 B.1)
All permanent structures shall be set back a minimum of 60 feet from the top of bank of the nearest open channel that conveys runoff water (15.4.20.040 A.2.b).
4.39.55.020 Rainfall-Runoff Computation Methods Reference
Modeling Approach.
There are three acceptable methods for estimating the peak runoff: the Rational Method, TR-55 and HEC-HMS. These three methods are described below. TR-55 and HEC-HMS can also be used to estimate runoff volume for storage facility sizing.

Other methods for estimating peak runoff and runoff volume must first be approved by the City Engineer. The table below indicates the applicable total drainage area for each modeling approach.

Drainage Models and Applicable Total Drainage Area

Drainage Model	Maximum Drainage Area
Rational Method	< 200 Acres
TR-55	< 2000 Acres for Urban Areas
HEC-HMS	Any


Drainage Basin Delineation - For the purposes of estimating storm water runoff, major drainage patterns should be identified based on topography and the location of major natural drainage channels. Within major drainage basins, sub-basins should be delineated for storm water runoff analysis using available local information including, but not limited to:
Topography
Aerial photography
Locations of storm water collection, conveyance, and detention facilities
Lan use and zoning maps
Hydrologic soil maps
Projected Future Land Use Conditions - Impacts that proposed development will have on downstream drainage storm drain facilities shall be evaluated. New development will nearly always increase storm water runoff volume and peak flow. In analyzing the effect of future development, four factors should be evaluated:
Increase in percent of impervious area.
Decrease in sub-basin time of concentration due to local storm drain improvements.
Decrease in runoff routing time due to trunk line and main channel improvements.
Concentration of runoff to discharge points where the undeveloped condition was predominantly shallow sheet flow.

Projected land use for a given area can be obtained from City zoning and planning maps.
Rational Method.
Use the table below to estimate the runoff coefficient.

Rational Method Runoff Coefficients

Type of Drainage Area	Runoff
Coefficient, C*
Business:	

Downtown areas	.070 - 0.95
Neighborhood areas	0.50 - 0.70
Residential:	

Single-family areas	0.30 - 0.50
Multi-units, detached	0.40 - 0.60
Multi-units, attached	0.60 - 0.75
Suburban	0.25 - 0.40
Apartment dwelling areas	0.50 - 0.70
Industrial:	

Light areas	0.50 - 0.80
Heavy areas	0.60 - 0.90
Parks, cemeteries	0.10 - 0.25
Playgrounds	0.20 - 0.35
Railroad yard areas	0.20 - 0.35
Unimproved areas	0.10 - 0.30
Lawns, sandy soil:	

Flat, 2%	0.05 - 0.10
Average, 2 - 7%	0.10 - 0.15
Steep, 7%	0.15 - 0.20
Lawns, heavy soil:	

Flat, 2%	0.13 - 0.17
Average, 2 - 7%	0.18 - 0.22
Steep, 7%	0.25 - 0.35
Pavement:	

Asphaltic and Concrete	0.70 - 0.95
Brick	0.75 - 0.85
Roof	0.75 - 0.95
Streets:	

Asphaltic	0.70 - 0.95
Concrete	0.80 - 0.95
Brick	0.70 - 0.85
Drives and walks	0.75 - 0.85
Roofs	0.75 - 0.95

*Higher values are usually appropriate for steeply sloped areas and longer return periods because infiltration and other losses have a proportionally smaller effect on runoff in these cases.
Time of Concentration - Time of concentration shall be calculated using the method found in SCS Technical Release 55 (SCS, 1986). The minimum allowable time of concentration to be used in runoff calculations shall be 5 minutes.
Rainfall Intensity - Rainfall depth and intensity data is according to the National Weather Service's Precipitation Frequency Data Server (http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/sa/ut_pfds.html). We require each duration between  the 5-minute storm and 24-hour storm to be analyzed to determine the peak volume requirement.

    10-Year Storm

    min         in/hr

5	3.31
10	2.51
15	2.08
30	1.4
60	0.87
120	0.5
180	0.36
360	0.22
720	0.13
1140	0.08

     25-Year Storm

     min        in/hr

5	4.34
10	3.31
15	2.74
30	1.84
60	1.14
120	0.65
180	0.46
360	0.26
720	0.16
1440	0.10


TR-55.

The 24-hour SCS Type II storm distribution shall be used if the TR-55 method is used.
The storm depths shall be selected from the depth-duration-frequency curve found on the National Weather Service's Precipitation Frequency Data Server 
(http://hdsc.nws.noaa.gov/hdsc/pfds/sa/ut_pfds.html).

Table 2-2a-d in TR-55 shall be used to estimate the runoff Curve Number.

For urban drainages, pervious and impervious areas shall be modeled as separate sub-basins. Impervious area in small urban areas can be estimated by direct measurements from aerial photography. The method in TR-55, or any similar method, that suggests modeling developed sub-basins using a revising Curve Number based on the percent impervious will not be allowed. Those methods can severely underestimate the runoff potential from a sub-basin.

Typical values of effective percent impervious area based on land use are shown in the table below.

Average Percent Impervious Area by Land Use Category

Land Use Category	Average Percent
Impervious Area (%)	Housing Density
(Residential Only)
Commercial	95	

Business/Industrial	60	

Institutional	60	

High Density Multi-family
Residential	50	10 to 12 units/acre
Medium Density Multi-family
Residential	45	6 to 10 units/acre
High Density Single Family
Residential	35	3 to 6 units/acre
Medium Density Single Family
Residential (Traditional
Neighborhood)	20	2 to 3 units/acre
Low Density Single Family
Residential	15	1 to 2 units/acre
Very Low Density Single Family
Residential	8	< 1 unit/acre
Parks	1	

Open Space	1	



HEC-HMS.
There are four main input categories in HEC-HMS which are: design storm, loss method, transform method and routing method. The design storms shall be obtained using the procedure described below. For the loss, transform and routing methods, there are multiple options within HEC-RAS that can be used. Below is a description of the preferred method. Other methods may be allowed, but must first be approved by the City Engineer.
Design Storm - The design storm shall be developed in accordance with Section 4.78.12.
Loss Method - The SCS Curve Number loss method shall be used. The primary input parameter for this method is the Curve Number. As described below, for developed areas, the percent impervious is also entered. The initial abstraction is typically left blank. The program will calculate the initial abstraction based on the Curve Number using the equation documented in TR-55.
Curve Number - Table 2-2a-d in TR-55 shall be used to estimate the pervious runoff Curve Number (CN).

Soil Classification - In order to estimate the CN, the hydrologic soil group classification for the drainage basin must be determined. The hydrologic soil group shall be obtained from the NRCS SSURGO dataset. SSURGO data can be obtained from the Soil Data Mart (http://soildatamart.nrcs.usda.gov/).

Modeling Impervious Areas - The directly connected impervious area (DCIA) should be entered for developed areas. The DCIA should be measured from aerials for existing developments, or should be obtained from the design plans for a proposed development. Typical values of average percent impervious areas based on land use are included in Table 2-2 of TR-55.

Transform Method - The SCS Unit Hydrograph transform method shall be used. This method requires the input of a single variable: lag time.
Lag Time for Natural Watersheds -  The Corps of Engineers version of Snyder's equation shall be used to calculate the lag time for natural watersheds (USBR, 1989) as shown below:

                                 L * Lca       0.33
Lag Time = Ct (  -----------  )
                                 ( S0.5 )

Where:
Ct= Constant between 1.3 and 2.2. 1.6 is typical for the Spanish Fork area
L= Length, in miles, of the longest watercourse
Lca= Length, in miles, along L to the centroid of the drainage basin
S= Overall drainage basin slope, in feet/mile/

Lag Time of Urban Areas - The lag time for small urban areas is assumed to be equal to the time of concentration. Appendix C contains a sample worksheet from TR-55 that can be used to calculate the time of concentration.

Routing Method - The Muskingum-Cunge method shall be used for routing. The method requires follow parameters are inputted:


Length - Total length of the reach element.
Slope - Average slope for the entire reach.
Invert - Optional. Typically not used.
Cross Section Shape - Multiple cross sections are available to select from. Depending on the cross section chosen, additional information is required (i.e. diameter, side slope).
Manning's "n" - Average value for the entire reach. Typical values for Manning's "n" used for storm drain conveyance facilities area shown in the table below.

Values of Manning's Coefficient (n) for Channels and Pipes

Conduit Material	Manning's n*
Concrete-lined channel	0.013 - 0.020
Excavated or Dredge Channels	

Earth channel - straight and 
uniform	0.020 - 0.030
Earth channel - winding, fairly
uniform	0.025 - 0.040
Rock	0.030 - 0.045
Unmaintained	0.050 - 0.140
Natural Channel	

Fairly regular section	0.030 - 0.070
Irregular section with pools	0.040 - 0.100
Pipe Material	

Plastic pipe	0.011 - 0.015
Steel/cast iron pipe	0.012 - 0.015
Concrete pipe	0.013 - 0.015
Corrugated metal pipe	0.012 - 0.026
*Lower values are usually for well-constructed and maintained (smoother) pipes and channels.

Other Models - Other computer programs can be used to model the rainfall-runoff process that use similar hydrologic modeling methods, but care should be taken to make sure modeling methods are used correctly. The City Engineer must approve all computer programs and methods that are not described above, before they are used.
Calibration.
Peak runoff records are typically not available for local drainage studies. An effort should, however, be made to ensure that rainfall runoff analysis results for local drainage studies are consistent and compatible with the City's Storm Drain Master Plan and other pertinent local drainage studies.

It should be noted that the term "calibration" in this context refers to the process of adjusting parameters to achieve results consistent with available reference information, rather than adjusting for actual stream flow observations from the study area. Multiple hydrologic methods should be evaluated and compared to identify reasonable runoff computation results. These methods may include the Rational Formula, the SCS Curve Number Method, the SCS Pervious CN Method, and the Constant and Initial Lost Method. Regional regression equations may also be used to evaluate results depending on the basin size.
Calibration for Natural Watersheds
Results from hydrologic models should be compared to:
Actual flow records for modeled drainage channels
Stream flow records from hydrologically similar drainages in the vicinity of the study
Regional stream flow data (in the event that stream flow records for the local area are not available)
Calibration for Urban Areas
For small urban (developed) areas, the USGS published regression equations than can be used to "calibrate" hydrologic models (see Peak-flow Characteristics of Small Urban Drainages Along the Wasatch Front, Utah).

The range of basin characteristics used to develop the regression equations are shown in the table below.

                      Range of Basin Characteristics Used To Develop
                     Regression Equations for Small Urban Drainages

Basin Characteristic	Unit	Range in Values
Drainage Area (DA)	mi2	0.085 - 0.87
Basin Slope (BS)	%	0.3 - 15
Effective Impervious Area (EIA)	%	22 - 57

The equations shown in the table below are only applicable to drainage basins that meet the range of values shown above.

Regression Equations for Peak Flows For Small Urban Drainages

Recurrence
Interval
(Years)	Equations	Average
Standard
Error of
Estimate
(%)
10	Q10= 0.575 DA0.285 BS0.410 EIA1.29	32
25	Q25= 66.1 DA0.093 BS0.243	33
100	Q100= 120 DA0.158 BS0.194	29

The unit peak runoff varies depending on slope and the drainage basin percent impervious. In general, the 10-year event for small urban drainages should be between 0.3 cfs/acre and 1.0 cfs/acre. Modification to input parameters should be considered if simulated runoff results are not within this range.

Specifications.
Storm, land and groundwater drain facilities shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 41 00 (Storm Drainage Systems). These specifications cover the installation of storm, land and groundwater lines. See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. See standard drawings related to storm, land and groundwater drains. Land and groundwater drains shall be approved by the City Engineer and shall be installed lower in elevation than the sewer mainline.
Size.
The City Engineer must approve the sizes of all proposed drain lines. The minimum size of pipe is 15" diameter for main lines and 12" diameter for laterals.
Location.
Drain lines shall be located along the centerline of the street. A maximum of 500 feet of pipe shall be allowed between manholes.
Minimum Slopes.
Slopes shall be designed to have a 2 foot per second velocity unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. The following table lists minimum slopes for drain lines for each size of pipe:

Minimum Drain Line Slopes

Pipe Diameter 
(inches)	Minimum Slope
(%)
12	0.194
14	0.158
15	0.144
16	0.132
18	0.113
21	0.092
24	0.077
27	0.066
30	0.057
36	0.045
48	0.031
54	0.027
60	0.023


Unusual Piping and Plumbing.
Special and unusual piping and plumbing for equipment or structures are treated as separate items and are not included in these standards.

Groundwater Drains.
All plans for groundwater drains must be designed and stamped by a licensed professional civil engineer in the State of Utah. Only rigid pipe may be used.

4.39.55.025 Pipe And Fittings
General.
Reinforced concrete pipe shall be used for all main drain lines 15" or larger in diameter and for all drain lines of smaller size with less than 2 feet of cover or more than 8 feet of cover. Corrugated metal pipe (CMP) may only be used when authorized by the City Engineer.
Concrete Pipe.
Concrete pipe shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 02 (Concrete Pipe and Culvert). Reinforced concrete pipe (RCP) shall be Class III. Only new pipe may be used unless otherwise authorized by the City Engineer.
Corrugated Metal Pipe (CMP).
CMP shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 04 (Corrugated Metal Pipe).
Polypropylene Pipe (PP).
PP pipe shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 33 05 11. Material can be HP Storm and Sanitite (or equivalent) depending on bury depth, groundwater, and other factors. Diameters up to 30 inches shall meet the requirements and specifications of ASTM F2736. Diameters over 30 inches shall meet the requirements and specifications of ASTM F2764. Typically 3 feet or less bury depths require triple wall PE pipe approved by the City Engineer.
4.39.55.030 Submittal Requirements
Drainage Plan and Report.
A final Drainage Plan and Report is required for all proposed developments and shall be prepared by a professional civil engineer registered in the State of Utah. The report portion of the Drainage Plan and Report shall contain the following:
Title page showing project name, date, preparer's name, seal and signature.
Description of the development, including location (township, range, section, subdivision and lot).
Description of property, area, existing site conditions including all existing drainage facilities such as ditches, canals, washes, swales structures, storm drains, springs, detention and retention basins.
Description of off-site drainage features and characteristics upstream and downstream of the site and any known drainage problems.
A description of proposed facilities that will be used to manage on-site and off-site storm water runoff associated with the development, including calculations used to estimate runoff and size storm water facilities. See Section 4.78.12 for design criteria and Section 4.78.16 for approved rainfall-runoff computation methods.
Description of existing and proposed on-site drainage features, characteristics, and facilities.
Description of master planned drainage facilities and how the development and proposed drainage facilities conform to the storm drain master plan.
Description of downstream receiving facilities for storm water discharges and the capacities of those facilities. Include calculations.
Description of existing FEMA floodplain, if applicable.
Description of other drainage studies that affect the site.
Preliminary drawings of proposed drainage facilities that also show existing storm drain facilities on or adjacent to the site.
Description of compliance with applicable flood control requirements and FEMA requirements, if applicable.
Description of design runoff computations. See Section 4.78.16 for approved rainfall-runoff computation methods.
Design calculations to support inlet spacing and sizing of facilities. Include a description of drainage facility design computations. See Section 4.78.12 for design criteria.
Description of any needed drainage easements or rights-of-way.
Description of FEMA floodway and floodplain calculations, if applicable.
Description of field work performed to estimate minimum depth to groundwater at the site.
Commentary on geotechnical engineer's findings of percolation rates, soil structure, groundwater depth, and recommendation on low impact development (LID) infrastructure implementation effectiveness. If not recommended, submit a proposal for alternative controls to meet the City's LID requirement. If recommended, provide details of how the LID infrastructure will meet our requirements.
Conclusions stating compliance with drainage requirements and opinion of effectiveness of proposed drainage facilities and accuracy of calculations.
Appendices showing all applicable reference information.

Drawings shall be submitted with the Drainage Plan and Report and shall include the following information, if applicable.
Existing and proposed property lines.
Existing and proposed topography (2-foot maximum contour interval) extending at least 100 feet beyond the site.
Existing and proposed streets, easements, and rights-of-way.
Existing drainage and irrigation facilities.
FEMA floodplain and floodway.
Required setbacks for structures from the nearest top bank of the Spanish Fork River, if applicable.
Drainage basin boundaries and sub-basin boundaries on a topographical map.
Existing flow patterns and paths.
Proposed flow patterns and paths.
Location and size of proposed drainage facilities including: storm drain pipes, inlets, manholes, cleanouts, swales, channels, and retention and detention basins. Include spot elevations of proposed grade, flowline and top, back curb.
Details of proposed storm drain facilities, including storm drain inlets. Include maintenance and monitoring plan for storage facilities.
Details of proposed improvements to existing irrigation facilities and any facilities to be used to manage high groundwater conditions on the site.
Location of drainage easements required.
Other relevant drainage features.
Scale, north arrow, legend, title block showing project name, date, preparers name, seal and signature.
Connecting to Existing Drain Lines.
Manholes and sumps used to connect proposed storm drain to existing storm drain shall be plumb and centered on the existing storm drain. The new pipe shall be placed against the existing pipe at the elevation designated by the project engineer and the base poured as specified above. Care shall be taken not to disturb the alignment of the existing storm drain during the excavation procedure. Any damage to the existing storm drain shall be repaired.
Sumps.
Sumps may only be constructed of reinforced concrete, precast sections and shall meet the requirements of ASTM C478-73. Sumps shall have eccentric lids to ensure adjustments in alignment.
Inlet and Clean Out Structures.
Surface water must enter the City storm drain system through standard City inlet boxes. In no case may water inlet directly into storm manholes, clean-outs, or sumps. Inlets and clean out structures shall not exceed 500 ft spacing.

All inlet and clean out structures shall be reinforced concrete boxes. They may be precast or cast-in-place. Grate and Frame Material. All castings shall be of ASTM A-48, Class 35 iron free from blowholes and shrinkage defects. Castings shall be free from fins and burrs and shall be shot-blasted to remove sand and other foreign matter. Freedom from cracks and defects shall be ascertained by the engineer prior to installation.
Headwalls.
A headwall shall be installed at all ditch to pipe transitions. Headwall designs must be stamped by a licensed professional civil engineer in the State of Utah and approved by the City Engineer.
4.39.55.040 Retention/Detention Basins
General.
 Basin designs shall be designed with the following side depths and slopes:


Depth	Slope
18"	2:1
3'	3:1
Above 3'	4:1


Retention Basins.
All retention basins shall have a freeboard of 12 inches. Design of retention basins shall be according to the Storm Water Drainage Design Manual. All retention basins shall have a series of interconnected sumps connected to curb inlet boxes or storm drain main lines. All retention basins shall be landscaped in accordance with City Standards.

All retention basins shall be constructed for drainage areas designated in the Storm Drain Master Plan. Basins for smaller areas may be allowed only with prior written approval of the City Engineer.
Detention Basins.
All detention basins shall have 12 inches of freeboard. Design of detention basins shall be according to the Storm Water Drainage Design Manual. Detention basins may be constructed in landscape or parking areas. Each detention basin shall incorporate LID storm drain principles and have an overflow to the City storm drain system. Pipes shall not be used as storage in storm water calculations.
4.39.55.050 Low Impact Development
General.
All new development and roadways shall incorporate LID storm drain in the form of bioretention swales, underground retention cells, or and other methods as approved by the City Engineer. LID systems shall be designed to handle the 100-year, 24 hour storm.
Underground Storage.
Underground storage and infiltration shall be installed under the park strips as shown in the City standard drawings. R-TankHD, StormTech chambers, or approved equivalent shall be used to provide underground storage. R-TankHD and StormTech chambers shall be installed per the manufacturer's specifications.
Landscaping.
A landscape plan for the bioretention swales shall be submitted and approved by the City. All landscaping shall be designed and installed per City standard drawings and specifications. The developer shall provide financial assurance in the form of a bond to assure that all landscaping is installed per the approved plan. Landscaping of the bioretention swale shall be completed in approved section for uniformity. All bioretention swale landscaping shall be complete by the second summer following completion of the development.
Underground Storm Water Chamber Installation.
The excavated area shall be level and free of unwanted debris. The depth shall be deep enough to add a minimum of 4 inches of base material underneath the chambers. If the excavated area is a hard, rocky or clay soil, a minimum of 6 inches shall be used. The excavated area shall be a minimum of 2 feet wider than the chambers.

Geotextile fabric shall be used to wrap the chambers with a minimum overlap of 24 inches. All piping connected to chambers shall use geotextile fabric with a minimum overlap of 12 inches. Fabric shall be secured in place using stainless steel zip ties. No gaps in fabric will be allowed. Inspection ports shall be 8 inch diameter schedule 40 pvc with a lid at curb level. Inspection ports shall be installed on every section of chambers, with sections separated by pipe connections or the end of chambers. Chambers shall lay flat and level.

Base, side and top material shall be coarse sand. A minimum spacing of 12 inches shall be used between the chamber side walls and excavated area. The side materials shall be compacted in 12 inch lifts. Coarse sand shall be installed on top of the wrapped chambers at a minimum of 4 inches before a minimum 12 inches of soil. Soil shall be free of large debris. All compaction shall be 95% or above. Any piping connected to the chambers shall use the same coarse sand and compaction as the chambers. Before any compaction or traffic is allowed on top of the chambers, the required minimum 16 inches of coarse sand and soil shall be installed.
4.39.60 Streets And Pavements
4.39.60.010 General
4.39.60.020 Street Section
4.39.60.030 Trail Section
4.39.60.040 Bituminous Surface Course


4.39.60.010 General
Street Designations.
Street designations include: local streets, collector streets and arterial streets. Designations shall be assigned by the City.
Time Limitation after Curb and Gutter is Placed.
Pavement shall be placed at least 7 days after and before 45 days after the placement of curb and gutter unless an extension is granted by the City Engineer.
Geotextiles, Geogrids and Geocomposites.
All geotextile work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 19 (Geotextiles) and APWA 32 12 16 (Plant-Mix Asphalt  Paving). Geogrid and geocomposite work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 21 (Geogrids/Geocomposites) and APWA 32 12 16 13 (Plant-Mix Asphalt Paving).
Pavers.
Pavers and installation shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 14 13 (Precast Concrete Unit Paving) and APWA 32 14 16 (Brick Unit Paving).
Painted Traffic Lines and Markings.
Painted traffic lines and markings shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 17 23 (Pavement Markings) and the MUTCD. If striping is to be removed it shall be removed by water blasting. Black paint over existing paint and grinding will not be allowed.
Traffic Barriers.
Vehicle barriers shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 34 71 13 (Vehicle Barriers) and the MUTCD.
Vehicle Delineators.
Vehicle delineators shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 34 71 19 (Vehicle Delineators) and the MUTCD.
4.39.60.020 Street Section
Pavement Design and Soils Investigation.
A pavement design and soils investigation shall be performed for all new roads and those roads for which work will be performed. The results of this investigation and a design of the road cross section shall be submitted to and accepted by the City Engineer. 
Pavement Design Engineer's Responsibility.
The design of pavement sections is a combination of several different and varied factors of civil and geotechnical engineering, which are under the control of the design engineer, not the City. This includes the preparation of an adequate soils report which is representative of soil conditions in the field, at the proper location, both horizontally and vertically, a determination of the types of vehicles which are going to use these roads, the numbers of these types of vehicles, an assumption of the life of the roadway, the equivalent single axle loads (ESALs) the roadways will be subject to, all of which are based in original assumption prepared and made by the design professionals preparing these pavement sections designs. Assumptions and studies made of these initial design parameters are the sole responsibility of the design professional preparing these pavement designs and are not dictated by the City. The design professional is tasked with performing an adequate pavement design and affixes his/her stamp and signature indicating he/she have performed the design, and it is adequate to provide the service life designed for.
Performance Period.
This refers to the period of time that the initial pavement structure will last before it needs rehabilitation. This also refers to the time elapsed as a new pavement structure deteriorates from its initial serviceability to its terminal serviceability. When consultants perform pavement designs for the City, the "Performance Period" will be 20-years from project construction completion.
Pavement Design Process.
The pavement design engineer shall perform pavement designs and evaluations based on the recommendations found in the 1993 version of the "AASHTO Guide for Design of Pavement Structures" and on "UDOT Pavement Design Manual". Alternate design methods may be proposed, provided that the pavement design engineer follows a well-established and proven method. In all designs, the pavement design engineer shall show their work and stamp and sign the recommended pavement designs. This design method will be used in all cases for all classifications of roadways.
Layered Approach - In addition to SN design of the entire section, the minimum required depth of asphalt shall be calculated using the layered approach, which determines asphalt surfacing thickness based on the strength of the base layer immediately below.
Soils/Geotechnical Investigation.
Site evaluations for new pavement design and construction are performed following a defined testing plan that helps identify the necessary conditions to ensure the required information is obtained in the field.
Required Design Information - The following list includes information that is required for pavement design.
Soil types exposed at the ground surface.
Soil conditions within a depth of 3 to 5 feet below the pavement sub-grade including:
Soil classification units
In situ soil moisture content and density
Occurrence of swelling soils
Soil plastic and liquid limits
Moisture-density compaction curves
Occurrence of moisture induced collapsing soils
Depth to groundwater below the pavement sub-grade
Sub-grade support variability
Approximate vertical distance of the pavement surface above or below the adjacent ground surface

Soft or weak soils that will not support or will limit the size of earthwork equipment
Vegetation, debris and other deleterious material that may affect pavement support
Hazard rating for frost damage
Water hazards
Performance of nearby pavements
Design CBR for road sections
Boring/Sample Locations - Location of the borings and samples shall be determined based on the centerline location of the planned road, the planned width of the road and the expected soil conditions for the area. Spacing of the test holes will be controlled by the type and profile of the soil at each location. For long road sections, the City's practice includes using 200 feet as a starting interval for exploration locations and varying this interval up to a maximum of 1000 feet for uniform conditions. If the soil types significantly change between test holes, intermediate locations shall be investigated. The determination of the number and location of samples and/or borings shall consider the reliability of the pavement design and the cost-effectiveness of the investigation. For new developments, with multiple roadways to be constructed, location of borings may be based on a minimum of two borings for each road to be built. Borings, samples, and other explorations shall be located so that the sites can be found during construction. The locations shall be referenced to the following:
A construction station,
Road centerline, and
Elevations or road grades where possible.
Selection of Design CBR - Sub-grade soil CBR values shall be determined using samples compacted at optimum moisture content to 95 percent of the maximum density obtainable by the AASHTO T-180, Method D, of compaction. CBR tests shall be performed according to AASHTO T-193 except that a standard surcharge weight of 10 pounds shall be used for soaking and the penetration test of all samples. The CBR chosen for pavement design purposes shall have a confidence level of 90% for a normal distribution of values. If it is determined that there is an insufficient number of CBR tests, then the lowest CBR value will be used for design. This will be determined by the City Engineer. The following table indicates the number of CBR tests that will provide a 90 percent confidence level that the average test value is within plus or minus 1 unit of the average for a normal t-distribution of values.



CBR Test
Range	1	2	3	4	5	6
Number of
Required
Tests	2	3	4	5	6	8-9
(Source: UDOT Pavement Design Manual, Table 3A-1)


Pavement Design Inputs.
The following defaults shall be used in performance of the pavement design. Alternate values may be proposed with supporting documentation. Any variations from these standards must be approved by the City Engineer.
Traffic - Traffic, in the form of Equivalent Single Axle Loads (ESALs), shall be based on actual traffic (AADT and %Trucks), including construction traffic, and appropriate truck load factors. If actual traffic data is not available, use the following ESAL value defaults.
Parking Lots/Local: 60, 000
Commercial Local/Collector: 250,000
Arterial: 700,000
Material Inputs - Alternate values may be proposed with supporting documentation. Any variations from these standards must be approved by the City Engineer.


Layer Coefficients
Hot Mix Asphalt	0.4
Treated Base Course	0.3
Untreated Base Course	0.1
Granular Borrow/Sub-base	0.08
Resilient Modulus Values (psi, Maximum)
Treated Base Course	250,000
Untreated Base Course	30,000
Granular Borrow/Sub-base (A-1-a)	25,000
Sub-grade	15,000


AASHTO Design Inputs - The following defaults shall be used in the AASHTO 1993 Design process.
Reliability. 90%
Deviation. 0.45 for asphalt, 0.35 for concrete
Initial Serviceability. 4.2
Terminal Serviceability. 2.5 for Arterials, 2.0 for all others
Drainage Coefficient. 1.0

Article B has guidelines shall be used as a minimum requirement for street cross sections. They should be used unless the pavement design and soils investigation indicates they are not adequate. Any variations from these standards must be approved by the City Engineer.

Pavement Section.
All roads shall be paved with asphalt concrete according to City standards unless authorized by the City Engineer. Asphalt over 3" needs to be paved in two lifts. The following table shall be used for minimum asphalt pavement surfacing depths:

Asphalt Pavement Course Thickness

Application	Minimum Surface*
Parking Lots, Trails and
Driveways	3 inch + preservation coat
& crack seal after 1 year
Local Streets	3 inch + preservation coat
& crack seal after 1 year
Commercial Local	4 inch + preservation coat
& crack seal after 1 year
Collector Streets	4 inch + preservation coat
& crack seal after 1 year
Arterial Streets	5 inch + preservation coat
& crack seal after 1 year
*Compacted thickness

All Parking Lots, Trail, Driveways and Streets shall have an approved Crack seal and preservation coat installed within 1 year after acceptance of the Development or construction project. The type of preservation coat will be determined by the City based on road category, age at application and projected life of the pavement. At the City's discretion, the contractor may arrange to have the City install the preservation coat and crack seal at the Contractor's expense.


Road-base Section.
All roads shall have a minimum 8 inches of road-base under the pavement surface. Road-base shall be an untreated base course installed according to City standards. See Chapter 39.35. Earthwork and Trenching. Road-base shall be finished to a smooth uniform line and grade and shall extend a minimum of 24" beyond the pavement surface for placements without curb and gutter.
Sub-base Section.
All sub-base shall be an engineered fill that meets and is installed according to City standards. See Chapter 39.35. Earthwork and Trenching. Sub-base shall be finished to a smooth uniform line and grade. The thicker section shall be used in the case where CBR may be in conflict. The following table shall be used for minimum sub-base course thicknesses for the following California Bearing Ratio (CBR) values of sub-grade:

Parking Lots and Driveways Minimum Sub-base Course Thickness

Sub-grade CBR	Minimum Sub-base
Thickness (inches)
Less than 2	12
2.1 to 8.0	8
More than 8	No Sub-base Required

Local Street Minimum Sub-base Course Thickness

Sub-grade CBR	Minimum Sub-base
Thickness (inches)
Less than 2	15
2.1 to 3.0	12
3.1 to 10.0	8
More than 10	No Sub-base Required

Collector Street Minimum Sub-base Course Thickness

Sub-grade CBR
	Minimum Sub-base
Thickness (inches)

Less than 2.0	18
2.1 to 3.0	15
3.1 to 5.0	12
5.1 to 15.0	8
More than 15	No Sub-base Required

Arterial Street Minimum Sub-base Course Thickness

Sub-grade CBR
	Minimum Sub-base
Thickness (inches)

Less than 2.5	24
2.5 to 3.5	18
3.6 to 6.0	12
6.1 to 25.0	8
More than 25	



Grading.
The sub-grade, sub-base, and road base shall all be graded to an engineered red-head and accepted by the City. Red-heads shall be placed every 50 feet at the crown of the road. If the distance between red-heads and edge of pavement exceeds 25 feet additional redheads shall be installed half way between the crown and edge of pavement.
4.39.60.030 Trail Section
General.
A pavement and soils investigation shall be performed for all new trails. The results of this investigation and a design of the trail section shall be submitted to and accepted by the City Engineer.

The following guidelines shall be used as a minimum requirement for trail cross sections. They should be used unless the soils investigation indicates they are not adequate. Any variations from these standards must be approved by the City Engineer. All trail materials shall be placed according to City standards.
Engineered Fill - Compacted engineered fill shall be placed in all areas where fills are required to meet grade or the requirements of the soils investigation.
Untreated Base Course - 6 inches of compacted untreated base course shall be placed under the surface course of all trails.
Bituminous Surface Course - A minimum of 3 inches of APWA DM-1/2, PG 58-28, 50 Blow bituminous surface course (section 4.39.60.040) shall be placed across 10 feet of the trail section.
A maximum of 15% RAP or 15% Recycled Binder Replacement, whichever is less, will be allowed.
Limestone Crusher Fines - When required, 2 1/2 inches of limestone crusher fines shall be placed along the edges of the trails to the top of the bituminous surface course.
Survey.
Both sides of a trail shall be laid out by a survey and approved by the City before construction. Lath shall be placed at 100 foot intervals and at bends and obstacles the trail comes near.
Weed Abatement.
All weeds shall be sprayed and killed with Roundup or an approved equivalent one week before any work may be performed, and within 3 weeks of the placement of untreated base course.
Geotextile Fence.
An APWA 31 05 19 (Geotextiles) silt fence shall be installed along the limits of the trail construction at hillsides and river embankements.
Sub-grade.
The sub-grade shall be grubbed of all trees, bushes and other organic matter. Sub-grade shall be graded to meet the following ADA requirements for walkways:
Maximum Slope - Sub-grade shall not have a slope greater than 8.33%.
Maximum Run for Steep Slopes - For slopes between 5.00% and 6.25% the maximum run shall be 40 feet. For slopes between 6.25% and 8.33% the maximum run shall be 30 feet.
Weed Barrier.
Weed barrier geotextile shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 05 19 (Geotextiles).
Limestone Crusher Fines.
The compacted limestone crusher fines shall meet the following gradation:

Limestone Crusher Fines Gradation

Sieve	Passing
3/8 inch	100%
No. 4	70 to 90%
No. 10	30 to 70%
No. 40	5 to 30%
No. 200	5 to 15%


Trail Markings.
Trail lanes shall be delineated by a center single dashed yellow line. Painted traffic lines and markings shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 17 23 (Pavement Markings) and the MUTCD.
Clean-up.
Upon completion of the trail section all windrows, survey and construction debris shall be removed from along the edges of the trail.
4.39.60.040 Bituminous Surface Course
Asphalt Binders.
Asphalt binders shall meet the requirements and specifications of UDOT Standard Specifications Section 02741 - Asphalt Material (Asphalt Binders). Recycled Asphalt Pavement (RAP) or Recycled Asphalt Binder (RAB) content may not exceed 15% in any mix design.

Binder Grade Requirements

Application	Minimum Binder Grade
Parking Lots, Trails and
Driveways	DM-1/2, PG 58-28

Local Streets	DM-1/2, PG 58-28

Commercial Local	DM-1/2, PG 58-28 or
DM-1/2, PG 64-28*
Collector Streets	DM-1/2, PG 58-28 or
DM-1/2, PG 64-28*

Arterial Streets	DM-1/2, PG 64-28
Repair and Maintenance
Work (Hand/Spreader
box applications)	DM-1/2, PG 58-28 or
DM-1/2, PG 64-22
*As determined by the City Engineer

For local streets and parking facilities use a minimum PG 64-28 conforming to the requirements of Section 02741 of UDOT Standard Specifications.

For all commercial local and collector streets, use a minimum PG 58-28 or 64-28 decided by the City Engineer conforming to the requirements of Section 02741, UDOT Standard Specifications.

For all arterial streets use a minimum PG 58-28 conforming to the requirements of Section 02741, UDOT Standard Specifications.

For all repair and maintenance work utilizing hand applications (spreader box or grader) use a PG 58-28 or PG64-22 conforming to the requirements of Section 02741 of UDOT Standard Specifications.
Asphalt Concrete (also referenced as Bituminous Concrete).
Use Asphalt Binder as per section 4.39.60.040 Article A above. Asphalt concrete shall meet the specifications and requirements of APWA 32 12 05 (Bituminous Concrete), APWA 32 12 16.13 (Plant-Mix Asphalt Paving) and APWA 32 12 16.19 (Cold-Mix Asphalt Paving), with the following modifications.

 Cold-mix asphalt concrete shall only be installed when allowed by the City Engineer. All cold-mix asphalt concrete shall be replaced with hot-mix within 30 days of when it becomes available.

For all arterial streets, use a PG 64-28, SP-1/2, 75 Nd Superpave mix that meets the specifications and requirements APWA 32 12 05 using Road Class III aggregates.

For all other streets and asphalt concrete applications, use a DM-1/2, 50 Blow Marshall mix that meet the specifications and requirements of the APWA 32 12 05 using Road Class I or II aggregates.
Prime Coat.
Prime coat only as required by the plans or the City. Prime coat shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 12 13.19 (Prime Coat).
Tack Coat.
Install tack coat as required and according to APWA 32 12 13.13 (Tack Coat). Use CSS-1 or CSS-1h tack emulsion diluted 2:1 (concentrate to water) at the following application rates. Apply tack coat to all horizontal and vertical surfaces sufficient to achieve minimum 95% coverage prior to placement of overlay or patch.


Application
	Rate (Gal/SY - Diluted)

New Pavement (<1 year Old)	0.06
Existing Pavement	0.08
Rotomilled Surface	0.12


Thin Overlays and Patches.
Use binder and asphalt concrete as defined in Article A and Article B based on paver or hand applications.
Crack Seal.
Crack seal material shall be Deery 103 Sealant Utah spec and or an approved equivalent.
High Density Mineral Bond.
(HDMB) Shall meet the requirements and specifications of Spanish Fork City's HDMB specifications (former APWA 32.01.13.68). Based on the city's 10+ years of performance experience with HDMB installations on Local Streets, Parking Lots, and Trails.
Slurry Seal.
Slurry seals shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 01 13 (Slurry Seal). The type of slurry seal applied to a City street shall be approved and specified by the City Engineer. Use a Type II slurry seal with a CQS-1H emulsion, unless otherwise defined.
Chip Seal.
Chip seals shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 01 14 (Chip Seal). Use a Type A or C ceramic chip seal with an LMCRS-2 or CRS-2P chip emulsion.
Micro-Surfacing.
Micro-surfacing shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 01 15 (Micro-Surface Seal). Use a Type II or Type III micro-surfacing with a CQS-1H emulsion, unless otherwise defined.
4.39.65 Portland Cement Concrete And Masonry Work
4.39.65.010 General
4.39.65.020 Installation
4.39.65.030 Materials
4.39.65.040 Concrete Mixes
4.39.65.050 Masonry


4.39.65.010 General
Specifications.
These specifications cover the installation of concrete work including but not limited to curbs, gutters, sidewalks, boxes, and thrust blocks. All concrete work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA Division 03 Concrete and related sections. Concrete driveway, sidewalk, curb and gutter work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 16 13 (Driveway, Sidewalk, Curb, Gutter). See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. Also, see standard drawings related to concrete work.

All concrete work shall be constructed where indicated on the plans or as directed by the project engineer and shall conform in all respects to the specified lines, grades, and dimensions and City standards.
Allowable Grades.
The minimum grade allowed for any gutter is 0.45%. The City Engineer may allow a minimum grade of 0.35% if the roadway has incorporated Low Impact Development (LID) systems. See Chapter 39.20. Improvement and Design Requirements for maximum allowable grades of City streets.
American Disabilities Act (ADA) Requirements.
All pedestrian facilities will conform to the current federal ADA standards.
Slip Forming.
In each drive approach and at each pedestrian ramp, 12 inch #4 rebar shall be placed at 24 inches on center with 4 inches extending into the curb, 2 1/2 inches below the top back of curb.
Combination Curb, Gutter, and Sidewalk.
Combination curb, gutter, and sidewalk will not be allowed unless authorized by the City Engineer.
Cold Weather Concrete.
Concrete shall not be placed when a descending air temperature in the shade and away from artificial hear falls below 35F. Concrete shall not be poured on frozen ground. Where temperatures are projected to descend below 32F within 72 hours after placement, concrete shall be covered or otherwise protected against freezing. Calcium chloride may be used only upon City Engineer approval. No more than 1.5% (by weight) of calcium chloride can be used. No calcium chloride shall be used when metal is to be embedded into or in constant contact with the concrete, including but not limited to the following situations:
cross gutters
sidewalks reinforced with rebar
light post footings with embedded anchor bolts
slabs with mesh
openings in walls with angle iron headers
steel base plates mounted or embedded in the concrete surface
or any other concrete improvement with non-coated reinforcing steel

Any other add mixtures must be approved by the City Engineer.

If concrete is not protected by insulation blankets for 72 hours following installation and the temperature drops below 45F  a pay factor of 0.50 shall apply.
Debris in Gutters.
Once curb and gutter and surface course is in place they shall be kept as clean as possible. Dirt and gravel shall not be placed in gutter or on street. Gutter shall flow freely at all times.
Sidewalk.
When equipment is required to cross over sidewalk, bridging will be provided to protect concrete.
Drive Approaches.
All concrete for a drive approach shall be 5 inches thick in the public right-of-way.
Protection of Wet Concrete.
The Contractor shall be responsible to protect wet concrete. Any concrete that is vandalized before setting up shall be replaced at the contractor's expense.
Repair.
When authorized by the City Engineer, Contractor may repair concrete damage with Concrete Solution's Ultra Surface Concrete Polymer installed to manufacturer's specifications or an equivalent that is approved by the City Engineer.
4.39.65.020 Installation
Cutting Pavement.
When replacing gutter, the pavement shall be cut along the entire excavation to provide a vertical joint in the surface. Cut shall be minimum of 12 inches from lip of gutter. A pavement saw shall be used for all pavement cutting. If excavation damages the cut pavement, pavement shall be cut again before patching. All road cuts shall be repaired within 2 working days.
Forms and Joints.
When pouring concrete along a curve, flexible forms with enough stakes to hold the forms at an even curve shall be used. Straight forms shall not be used on curved sidewalk or curb or gutters.

Curb and gutter contraction joints shall be constructed every 10 feet by using steel templates 1/8 inch in thickness. Sidewalk contraction joints shall meet APWA requirements with the minimum distance between joints being 5 feet.
Base Material.
A minimum of 4 inches of untreated base course shall be installed under all concrete and shall extend out 1 foot in all directions from concrete unless otherwise specified. Untreated base course shall be compacted and installed according to City standards. See chapter 39.35. Earthwork and Trenches.
Mixing and Conveying.
Concrete transported in a truck mixer, agitator, or other transportation device shall be discharged at the job and placed in its final position in the forms within 1 hour after the introduction of the mixing water to the cement and the aggregate, or the cement to the aggregate, except that in hot weather or under other conditions contributing to quick stiffening of the concrete, the maximum allowable time may be reduced by the City Engineer. The maximum volume of mixed concrete transported in an agitator shall be in accordance with the specified rating. During adverse weather conditions the City Engineer may deem it necessary for the use of a concrete pump truck.
Finishing.
As soon as the concrete has set sufficiently to retain its shape without support of the face form, the clamps, spreaders and face forms shall be removed. While the concrete is still green, the surface shall be thoroughly floated with a magnesium or moist wooden float to provide an even smooth surface, then broomed lightly.
Curing.
As soon as possible after final finishing, the finished surface shall be coated with a curing compound. The compound shall be an ASTM C-1315 Type 2 curing compound that meets the APWA 03 39 00 (Concrete Curing) specifications. The compound shall be applied in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations. During the months of October through February exposed concrete shall be covered with an insulated curing blanket that meets the ACI 306 specification for 3 days when temperatures remain at 15F or higher and for 7 days for temperatures below 15F. Insulated curing blankets shall only be removed during the warmest parts of the day. The curing compound shall then be applied within 24 hours of the blankets being removed.
4.39.65.030 Materials
Coarse Aggregate.
A coarse aggregate shall consist of hard durable particles of a mixture of crushed and natural gravel possessing at least 50% of broken surface area. The coarse aggregate shall be free from substances which are chemically active relative to hydrated cement and shall be subject to particularly the following:
Loss on abrasion by Los Angeles Abrasion Test not more than 40% by weight.
Loss on exposure to 5 cycles of sodium sulfate soundness test, not more than 8% by weight.
Deleterious substances shall not exceed the values in the following table:

                   Portland Cement Concrete Coarse
                  Aggregate Deleterious Substances

Substance	Maximum
% by Weight
Soft Fragments	3.0
Coal Lumps	1.0
Clay Lumps	0.5
Material passing 39
100 Sieve	1.5
Organic Material	0.1
Total for All of the Above	3.0

The maximum size of aggregate to be used shall not exceed 1 1/2 inches in terms of this size definition contained in ASTM Standards except that the maximum size shall not exceed 1/4 of the least dimension of the finished concrete in which the aggregate is to be used.

Coarse aggregate shall meet APWA gradation.

Fine Aggregate.
Fine aggregate shall consist of clean, hard durable particles of natural sands, subject to the following limitations:
Organic Calorimetric Test using sodium hydroxide shall result in a color not darker than Number 2 in the acceptance range.
Loss on exposure to 5 cycles of the sodium sulfate soundness tests shall not exceed 8% by weight.
Deleterious substances shall not exceed the values in the following table:

               Portland Cement Concrete Fine
            Aggregate Deleterious Substances

Substance	Maximum % by
Weight
Soft Fragments	3.0
Coal Lumps	1.0
Material passing 39
100 Sieve	3.0
Micaceous or Flaky
Particles
	3.0
Total for All of the
Above	5.0

Fine aggregate shall be uniformly graded within the following range:

                                          Portland Cement Concrete
                                           Fine Aggregate Gradation

Sieve Size	Minimum
Retained (%)	Maximum
Retained (%)
No. 4	0	5
No. 8	0	20
No. 16	20	50
No. 30	50	75
No. 50	75	90
No. 100	95	100
Cement.
All cement used shall be Type II unless otherwise allowed by the City Engineer. All cement and dry additives shall be stored in damp-proof conditions. Shipments of cement shall be marked and stored in such a manner as to provide positive identification. The supplier shall keep and have available for inspection at all times an accurate record of supplies and use of cement of the various types and shipments. No cement shall be used which has been subject to dampness or exposure.
Water.
Water used for concrete shall be potable and free from excess salts, organic material, or other deleterious substances. Addition of water to the mixed concrete after specified workability has been obtained will not be allowed, nor shall any concrete be re-tempered or re-mixed.
4.39.65.040 Concrete Mixes
Mix Design.
Concrete mix designs shall meet the following requirements:

Portland Cement Concrete Mix Design Requirements

Property	Standard
Requirement	Thrust Block
Material
Cement Content	6.5 Bags per
Cubic Yard
(Minimum)	3.5 Bags per
Cubic Yard
(Minimum)
25 Day
Compressive
Strength	4000 psi
(Minimum)	2000 psi
(Minimum)
Slump Range	1 to 3 inches	1 to 6 inches
Flatwork Slump
Range	3 to 4 inches	NA
Air Content	5% to 7%	NA
Fiber (if required)	Macrofiber (4lb min)	NA


Proportioning.
The supplier shall determine proportions by weight of aggregates, cement, additives, and water required to comply with strength, workability, and other requirements detailed herein. Such proportions shall be submitted to the City Engineer in three copies annually along with the following tests on materials and shall be subject to his/her approval.

Coarse aggregate
Source
Deleterious substances
Los Angeles Abrasion Test
Sodium Sulfate Soundness Test
Sieve
Fine aggregate

Source 
Deleterious substances
Calorimetric Test for Organics
Sodium Sulfate Soundness Test
Sieve and fineness modulus
Cement
Type 
Supplier
Analysis

Upon approval, all concrete shall be prepared in terms of the proportions so approved unless variation becomes necessary by reason of materials or conditions to achieve the requirements of these specifications, in which case such variation shall be approved in writing by the City Engineer. Approval by the engineer of mix proportions shall not relieve the supplier from the responsibility for obtaining the concrete strengths specified or complying with all other provisions of this specification.
Control.
Measurements of materials except water shall be by weight. Equipment used shall be capable of controlling weight within 1% of each ingredient. Water may be measured either by volume or weight provided than an accuracy of 1% is maintained. Cement may be assumed to weigh 94 pounds per sack but proportioning aggregates for fractional sacks of cement will not be permitted unless the fractional amount is weighed for each batch.
Water Adjustments.
Compensation for the water contained in the aggregates shall be made at least once daily or as often as inspection of the concrete may indicate that variation from this cause has occurred. The Pycometer Method of assessing water in aggregate may be used for its determination for the purposes of this paragraph.
4.39.65.050 Masonry
General.
All masonry work shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA Division 04 Masonry and related sections.
Graffiti Protection.
Apply Prosoco Sure Klean Weather Seal Blok-Guard & Graffiti Control WB 6 Weather Seal to unpainted masonry surfaces at risk to graffiti with installation.
4.39.70 Electrical Service
4.39.70.010 General
4.39.70.020 Voltage And Energy Regulation
4.39.70.030 Materials
4.39.70.040 Installation
4.39.70.050 System Requirements
4.39.70.060 Services
4.39.70.070 Metering
4.39.70.080 Lighting And Signal Poles


4.39.70.010 General
Standards and Specifications.
All electrical work shall be installed in accordance with these development standards, the most current edition of the National Electrical Code (NEC) and the National Electric Safety Code (NESC), and applicable State, County and OSHA codes and ordinances.

These specifications cover the installation of the electrical system. See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. See standard drawings related to electrical system.
Construction Costs.
All costs to install or relocate facilities to provide electrical service shall be paid by the Customer.
Attaching to Existing City Facilities Prohibited.
Customer shall install no wiring or attachments on poles or other equipment of the City unless specifically authorized, in writing, by the City.
Unusual Service Extension.
Special and unusual service extension requirements for equipment or structures are treated as separate items and are not included in these standards.
Permits and Inspections.
Service will not be established until all necessary permits have been obtained and not until Customer's wiring installation has been inspected and approved by the City Engineer. The City reserves the right to inspect wiring and to refuse service to any installation that is, in the opinion of the City Engineer, unsafe or if the operation of the same may be detrimental to the service furnished to other Customers or the City. All conduits shall be inspected prior to backfilling. All concrete street light bases, concrete transformer pads and other required concrete shall be inspected prior to pouring concrete. A compaction test shall be taken by the City or an approved engineering firm prior to setting any electrical enclosures, cabinets, or other structures. In addition, a test shall be taken on the concrete used for electrical pole bases, pads.
Access to Premises.
Any properly identified representative of the City shall, at all reasonable hours, have free access to and from the premises of the Customer for the purpose of inspecting Customer's installations and electric equipment and for the purpose of reading, repairing, testing, or removing the City's meter or its other property. When, in the opinion of the City Engineer, emergency conditions exist with respect to City's service, City's representative shall have immediate and free access to Customer's premises.
Electrical Plan Drawings.
Electrical Utility Planner shall design the electrical system and provide approved electrical plan drawings. Requests for any changes to these drawings can be made by contacting the Electrical Utility Planner with a proposal. Approved electrical drawings must be initialed by an approved electrical division supervisor, and signed by the Electrical Utility Planner in order to be valid for construction of the electrical system improvements. Photo-copies of approved drawings will not be considered valid. Revisions, if needed, must also include the date the revision was approved.
Electrical Box Clearance.
All electrical boxes shall have 12 feet clearance to the front and 3 feet clearance to the back and on either side. Secondary pedestals shall only require 3 feet of clearance on all sides. Switchgears shall have 12 feet clearance in front of the doors and 3 feet of clearance on the sides. Meters, metering cabinets & enclosures, service disconnect cabinets & enclosures, & CT cabinets, shall have a Policy 4 minimum of 8 feet of clearance in front of said cabinets & enclosures. All electrical sectionalizers, transformers, switchgear, etc. shall have a clear and level working space around them. The area shall be backfilled and leveled a minimum of 12 feet in all directions from the respective electrical device.

Meters, meter cabinets, services and related electrical cabinets shall not be enclosed by carports, sheds, out buildings, additions or remodels or other such buildings. Spanish Fork Electric Division shall have ready access to such equipment for safety & maintenance. The City reserves the right to disconnect the City electrical service to meter bases, services, etc. if in the opinion of the City the service is inaccessible or unsafe until the service & safety issues are resolved to the City's satisfaction. This may include, but is not limited to; relocating the service, upgrading the service to meet current City codes.
Overhead Electrical Power Line Clearances.
As set forth in Section 54-8c-1 through Section 54-8c-7 of the Utah Code, no person or thing may be brought within 10 feet of any high voltage overhead power line unless:

The responsible party has notified the Electric Division or Utility operating the high voltage line of the intended activity; and

The responsible party and the Electric Division or Utility have completed mutually satisfactory safety precautions for the activity; and

The responsible party has made prior arrangements to pay the Electric Division or Utility for the mutually satisfactory safety precautions (if applicable)

No building, dwelling, sign, bridge, antennae, or structure shall be constructed, or placed underneath any overhead electrical power lines, and shall meet current NESC and City clearance requirements, both vertically and horizontally, from said power lines. Variances shall only be allowed at the City's discretion.

If existing buildings or structures exist under power lines, those same buildings or structures shall not be modified, remodeled or constructed so as to further encroach upon the clearances from said power lines.

In general, for overhead high voltage open supply conductors operating from 750 volts to 22,000 volts nominal, the space extending from grade level to the height of the conductor vertically and 15 feet horizontally from the further most outside conductor from the pole shall be kept clear from the power lines. Furthermore, for overhead high voltage open supply conductors operating from 22,001 volts to 46,000 volts nominal, the space extending from grade level to the height of the conductor vertically, and 30 feet horizontally from the further most outside conductor from the pole shall be kept clear from the power lines. Open water, swimming pools, combustible materials or hazardous locations may have additional clearances required.

Additional clearances may be required depending on the installation or application.


4.39.70.020 Voltage And Energy Regulation
Available Voltages.

                   Standard Electrical Services

Residential	Commercial and
Industrial
1 Phase	3 Phase
3 Wire	4 Wire
120/240 Volts	120/208Y or
277/480Y Volts

Developer must contact the City Engineer for the availability of other service options.

The City Engineer reserves the right to deny a Customer 3-phase service if the City Engineer determines that single-phase service will adequately supply Customer's load requirements. The City Engineer reserves the right to deny a Customer 1-phase service if the City Engineer determines 3-phase service is in the best interest and beneficial to the City's electrical system.
3-Phase Service.
3 phase service may, at the City's option, be furnished where 3 phase facilities of adequate capacity are already installed immediately adjacent to the point where service is to be delivered to Customer, or where, as determined by the City, it is economically feasible to extend such 3 phase facilities.

The City reserves the right to refuse to extend or install 3 phase facilities to serve motors individually rated at 20 HP or less and to furnish only 1 phase service for such motors. In such an event, Customer may elect to install 1 phase to 3 phase conversion equipment to operate 3 phase motors.
Power Factor Correction.
The City reserves the right to require the Customer to install power factor corrective equipment. This equipment shall maintain the power factor on all of Customers electric power meters to not less than 90% lagging at all times.
Load Control.
The City Engineer reserves the right to require developers to install equipment to limit load and reduce voltage fluctuations.
Voltage Control.
Where Customer installs power factor corrective equipment, the City reserves the right to require Customer to install controls and equipment to prevent voltage, frequency, and/or harmonics problems that may be detrimental to other Customers or the City.
Fluctuating Load Limitations.
Where large fluctuating 1 phase loads, such as spot welders, are involved, the City reserves the right to require such loads to be supplied by means of a 3 phase to a single-phase converter or other similar equipment. All conversion equipment shall be installed, owned, operated and maintained by the Customer.

In the event a separate service or transformer installation or additional transformer capacity is required to adequately serve fluctuating loads (such as X-ray equipment, welders, etc.). Such equipment costs and installations shall be the responsibility of the Customer.
Penalties.
If, such voltage control equipment is not installed by Customer, Customer may be required to pay a power factor penalty and/or all electric service shall be subject to disconnection as provided by Title 13.44 of the Spanish Fork Municipal Code. Customer's wiring used to supply such fluctuating loads shall be installed in a continuous run of rigid conduit and cable as approved by the City.

4.39.70.030 Materials
Materials.
Only electrical grade materials and appurtenances shall be used.  The materials and appurtenances shall be UL Listed and designed for their purpose.
Conduit.
All conduits shall be electrical grade conduit. Conduit shall be schedule 40 PVC unless otherwise specified by the City Engineer. Electrical grade rigid metal or schedule 40 fiberglass conduit shall be used under collector and arterial streets and for all sweeps. Fiberglass conduits shall not be used for riser poles. All conduits extending out of the ground outside of an enclosure shall be rigid metal from the elbow up a minimum of 10 feet. All conduits entering into any cabinet, enclosure, vault, or ground sleeve shall have end bells attached to the ends of conduit to protect wire from damage. All buried metal conduit shall be coated with anti-corrosion tape. Tape shall be a minimum of 2 inches wide. Tape shall extend 6" above finished grade. Fiberglass sweeps shall not be used on riser poles, or service entrance conduits.
Enclosures.
All enclosures including, primary and secondary junction boxes, shall be level. Opening mechanisms and locking devices on all transformer equipment shall be 4 to 6 inches above final grade. Opening mechanisms and locking devices on all primary sectionalizers, switchgear and secondary junction boxes shall be 10 inches above final grade. Only approved enclosures, pads, vaults shall be used.
Soils & Compaction.
All soils under enclosures shall be approved road base and be compacted to 95% of dry density. The compaction area must extend at least 1 foot past the enclosure in all directions and be a minimum of 1 foot in depth under the enclosure. A compaction test shall be required before any enclosure, box, sleeve, or pad is set into place. The compaction test shall be taken by the City or by the City's approved engineering firm. If ground sleeves or pads settle, Developer shall be required to re-level to the above specifications. If primary enclosures or transformers settle after being energized, the City shall re-level the equipment at the Developer's expense.
4.39.70.040 Installation
General.
All electrical facilities shall be installed under the supervision of a licensed electrical contractor or journeyman lineman. A certified journeyman electrician or lineman shall be on site during all conduit installation, cable pulling and connecting of electrical wiring. All electrical installation & equipment shall be installed in a neat and workmanlike manner.

Curb & gutter shall be installed before excavation of electrical trenches. The curb should have property corners pinned in the top of the curb by approved methods. The curb will give reference for proper conduit depths & locations, and proper placement of electrical and communications boxes.

Contractor shall construct all electrical facilities in a development except for the following which shall be completed by the Utility:

Pulling high voltage underground cable;
Installing high voltage cable terminations;
Setting transformers and switch gears (contractor shall furnish & install sectionalizers);
Secondary connections shall be connected in transformers (exception: contractor shall connect secondary connectors in 3 phase transformers);
All overhead facilities, including extension of risers as shown in the standard drawings.
Underground Lines.
All new facilities shall be constructed underground unless otherwise authorized by the City. Existing buildings & facilities that have a change of use, or extensive remodeling, may, at the City Engineer's discretion, be required to install underground power lines. No overhead power will be allowed unless required or approved by the Utility.
Conduit Depths.
High voltage (12.47kV) primary conduits shall always be installed below secondary (600 volts or less) conduits & communications conduits if installed in a joint trench application. No primary high voltage conduits shall be installed at less than 4 feet in depth to top of conduits unless otherwise approved.

In general, the following table of depths shall be used for electrical conduit: (Note: depths are to the top of conduits)

                               Table 39.70.040.C1
                        Electrical Conduit Depths

Conduit Size	Depth to Top of
Conduit
Communication	36" min.
1" Street Light	4 Feet
2" Electrical Service	4 Feet
3" & 4" Electrical	4 Feet
3" Sec. & 4" Primary
to Transformer	4 Feet
3" Primary	4 Feet
6" Electrical	6 Feet*
*Depths may increase depending upon application.


Pull Strings.
All primary conduits shall have a 1,350 lb. mule tape in the conduit securely tied off in each pad or enclosure.
Identification Tape and Stub Markers.
All conduits shall have a caution tape taped directly on the conduit, and another tape buried 12 inches below grade. Tape shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 02320. The end of each stubbed conduit, including service laterals, shall be marked to the surface according to the standard drawings.
Underground Metal Conduit.
All buried metal conduit shall be coated with anti-corrosion protective tape. Tape shall extend 6" above finished grade.
Road Crossings.
Conduit shall be schedule 40 gray pvc or rigid fiberglass conduit. Shadow conduit shall not be installed at road crossing.
Berms, Slopes, and Hillside Conditions.
For installation instructions around berms, slopes, and hillsides contact the City Electric Division.
Labels.
An imprinted, plastic label shall be securely taped to the end of each conduit run where it emerges into any cabinet or enclosure. The label shall indicate whether the conduit run is primary or secondary, the direction & footage of conduit. The label shall also include the address of where the run ends.
4.39.70.050 System Requirements
Additional Capacity Requirements.
In the event a Customer makes application for additional capacity, subject to provisions of the applicable rate schedule, Customer shall install the necessary transformer capacity, service wires and other equipment required to adequately serve Customer's requirements.

All applications for service involving the furnishing of additional capacity or equipment by the City may be required of the Customer. The application shall state that any service entrance wiring and main switches required for the utilization of such additional capacity to be furnished by Customer, shall be considered as permanent fixtures belonging to the property being served and property except for replacement or enlargement if necessary.
Substations.
Substations may be required of Customer. The City reserves the right, where unusual substation capacity or voltage is involved, to require the Customer to install the necessary complete substation as provided for in City's rate schedule. In such an event, the Customer will receive the substation ownership discount specified in the applicable rate schedule.

Where the Customer furnished the necessary complete substation equipment to take service at primary service voltage, such equipment shall be owned and maintained by the Customer and shall include the necessary transformers, structure, controls, and protective equipment, and shall be of such quality and construction as meets City approval.
4.39.70.060 Services
Point of Service.
The City Engineer determines the point of delivery for all developments. City Engineer reserves the right to meter service at either primary or secondary voltage. For large or unusual loads, City Engineer reserves the right to require Customer to furnish the necessary complete substation equipment. In such an event, the substation ownership discount shall apply. The City Engineer will decide if multiple buildings, business and residential, or portions of buildings will be metered from one or from multiple metering points. Each building or structure served shall be supplied by only one service. Multiple services are only allowed at the City Engineer's discretion.
Service Entrance Requirements.
The service entrance shall be defined as the facilities that consist of approved service entrance conduit and cable enclosing conductors and appurtenances. Said conductors shall extend from the point of contact with the City's secondary point of service and thence to and including Customer's service entrance safety switch or disconnection means.

Customers shall install all conduit and wire from the building to the pole or transformer according to the City standards.
Service Entrance Safety Switch or Main Disconnect. A residential service safety switch shall be a combination meter base and main disconnect device. For commercial & industrial installations a service safety switch shall be an exterior service main disconnect device or devices, which will remain accessible at all times. This device shall be a main breaker, but minimum requirement shall be a safety switch, which will disconnect all service power from the premise wiring to the entire facility. The location of the main disconnecting device shall be approved by the City.

Identification. (Current NEC*) * Where a building or structure is supplied by more than one service, or any combination of branch circuits, feeders, and services, a permanent plaque or directory shall be installed at each service disconnect location denoting all other services, feeders, and branch circuits supplying that building or structure and the area served by each.
Service Entrance Conductors. All service entrance conductors and any conduit enclosure shall be continuous, unbroken, and completely exposed for external inspection throughout their entire length, extending from said point of contact with City's service wires to the meter socket (or meter cabinet if installed) and thence to Customer's service entry safety switch or main disconnecting means. Service entrance conductor type & size shall meet current NEC, NESC, and City Standards.

Underground service lateral conductors from the City's Secondary service point up to the line side of the main disconnecting means shall be installed, maintained, and owned by the Customer. The City assumes no liability for replacement of secondary service lateral conductors.
Underground Residential Service Requirements.

Conductor*, conduit sizes, & conduit depths

Refer to following table:

Service
Size	Service
Conductor
Size (AWG)	Conduit Size	Conduit
Depth (ft)
100 amp	#2 alum.	2"	4'
125 amp	1/0 alum.	2"	4'
150 amp	2/0 alum.	2"	4'
200 amp	4/0 alum.	2 1/2 	4'
201 - 400
amps	 See Electric Division

*Table 39.70.060.C Note: The current National Electric Code may supersede these conductor sizes based upon service size. Refer to current NEC for service conductor sizes for other types of conductors & installations.

Conduit. Only continuous factory lengths of conduit shall be used. Conduit may be cut or spliced, however the couplers & bends shall be kept to a minimum. Conduit shall be installed in a neat and workman-line manner. All service lateral conduits shall be inspected prior to backfilling.

Materials. Only electrical grade materials shall be used. Rigid metal conduits (RMC) & schedule 40 fiberglass shall be used for any elbows or bends 45 or greater. RMC shall be coated with an anti-corrosion tape below grade and tape shall extend 6" above finished grade. RMC or shall be used for all above grade service entrance conduits. Customer shall provide service wire from house to junction box, transformer or pole according to City standard drawings.
Trenching. Service lateral trenches shall be 4' in depth. Trenches shall be as straight as possible from the secondary service point to the Customer disconnect or meter base. The bottom of the trench shall be as level as possible and free from rocks & debris. Backfill placed directly on conduits shall be free from large rocks.
Service Entrance Conduits Support and Attachments. Service Entrance conduits shall be securely attached to the foundation of house or building by means of unistrut, concrete anchors, and unstrut type clamps. Unistrut shall be securely attached to foundation by a minimum 3/8" x 3" concrete anchors. Unistrut shall be long enough to attach communications conduits, typically 36". Communication conduits shall be spaced six inches apart and one foot to either side of the meter base. Service entrance conduits shall be one continuous, unbroken conduit from the elbow to the point of attachment at the meter base hub.
Location(s). Note: Refer to 39.70.070. Metering for additional requirements. Meter/main disconnect shall be located within the front 6' of the side of a residential dwelling. Meter/main disconnect shall be accessible at all times. Meter/main disconnect shall be kept a minimum of 36" from any natural gas meters, window wells, windows, doors, stairs and any material deemed to be combustible or hazardous. For remodels, service upgrades, building additions or other instances or applications affecting the existing electrical service, meter base, meter and disconnect, contact the Electrical Division for requirements. The service, meter, meter base, or disconnect may be required to be relocated to meet current Standards and Codes. Meter/main disconnect shall meet any and all applicable NEC, NESC codes. The City Engineer reserves the right to accept or reject any locations of meter base/main disconnects.
Overhead Residential Service Requirements.
General. Overhead services shall also include mast knob and service grips. Wiring shall meet load and installation requirements as indicated in the NEC.
Service Drop Support and Attachments. For one story buildings, or where conditions will not permit proper ground clearance to be maintained by City's service wires, Customer shall install, at customer's expense, suitable conduit or service entrance mast pipe or other structure or support that will properly support the City's service drop conductors and to maintain the minimum ground clearance as required by the NESC. If clearances cannot be met, the service may be required to be relocated or otherwise rerouted underground.
Service Entrance Weatherhead Clearance. The service entrance weatherhead shall be located so as to meet or to exceed NESC clearance from readily accessible windows, doors, or porches. The weatherhead must also be located so that when the service drop conductors are attached to the building structure or other service drop support, adequate clearance will be maintained away from telephone or other wires, windows, awnings, drainpipes, chimneys, or other obstructions.
Service Entrance Mast Pipe. This installation shall be made by Customer, at his/her expense, and shall conform to City's specifications. The service entrance mast pipe shall be of electrical grade galvanized rigid steel of not less than 2 1/2" inch inside diameter and shall be attached to the wall of the building by means of an adequate number of approved fastening devices. All service conduits shall be 2 1/2" inches in diameter, or larger.

The mast pipe and/or conduit shall be continuous, extending from the service entrance weatherhead located at the top of the mast pipe to Customer's meter socket base.

The service entrance mast pipe shall extend above the roof surface (through weatherproof roof flashing) so that the point of attachment of City's service wires to the mast pipe will be not less than 18 inches above said roof line, plus such additional height as is necessary so that the point of attachment of City's service wires will maintain minimum ground clearance, specified in the NESC.
Service Drop Attachment to Buildings. The Customer will furnish and the City will install the necessary attachment brackets and appurtenances to attach City's service wires to Customer's service drop termination facilities.

The City further reserves the right to require that the installation of the necessary mast pipe or equivalent facilities required supporting City's service wires, be made by Customer during the course of building construction.

Where the exterior of buildings is finished with brick facing, concrete, plastered metal lathe, sheet iron, stucco, tile or similar material suitable facilities of adequate strength to hold City's wires and attachments, shall be installed by Customer at Customer's expense.
Service Drop Conductor Ground Clearance. The service drop conductors must be located at such height as will enable adequate clearance to be maintained through the entire service drop length. The minimum ground clearance shall be as specified by the NESC, but not less than 12 feet over driveways not subject to truck traffic; 16 feet over commercial areas, parking lots and other areas subject to truck traffic; and 22 feet over public streets, alleys and roads. The final height attachment determination shall take into consideration conductor sag due to weather fluctuations & lengths of spans.
Service Entrance Conductor Specifications. The service entrance conductors may be either copper or aluminum, and shall be continuous without any joints, splices or connections, extending from the point of connection with service drop conductors to the termination of same at the meter socket or meter cabinet and thence same shall continue without joints, etc., to Customer's service entrance safety switch.

The Customer shall have electrical Contractor provide at the service entrance weatherhead, sufficient excess service entrance conductor length or "tails" (18 inch minimum) so that the City can connect same directly to the service drop conductors.

The service entrance installation shall conform in every respect to City's specifications, as to conductor connectors, and the method of making connections and all other related matters involved.

The service entrance conductor size for the ampere load to be carried shall be based on a maximum conductor operating temperature of 75C (type RH, RHW, XHHW, or equivalent).

Note: Refer to Table 39.70.060.1C for service conduit & conductor sizes.
Main Breaker or Disconnect. The entrance safety switch or main breaker ampacity shall be not less than the rated ampacity of the service conductors. Other specifications, including conductors, shall conform to the latest edition of the National Electrical Code.

Upon special application, City may permit 2 or 3 wire service entrance installations of less than 100 ampere capacity for signs, etc., where the load requirements, as determined by City, justify the same. In no event will 2 wire service be furnished except at City's option.
Temporary Service Drops. For temporary service furnished to individual small single phase loads, such as house trailers, small construction projects (such as house and small buildings, portable tools, etc.) City will install a standard temporary service drop, at Customer's expense. City's General Service Rate shall apply.

Where the temporary service installation requires additional facilities in excess of the previously mentioned standard service drop (such as an extension of the City's primary line), such installation will be at the Customer's expense.
Service to Mobile Homes and Trailer Courts Through One Meter. For service to trailer courts where more than 1 dwelling unit, mobile home, or trailer is supplied through 1 meter, the furnishing of such service shall be provided and installed by the facility owner.
Load to be Balanced on Circuits. The Customer shall use reasonable care in designing electric wiring and circuits; also, the connection of the loads to the circuits, so that the loads on the individual phases and circuits of City's service are properly balanced at all times.
Temporary Service to be Installed on Customer's Pole. All such temporary service drops shall be supported on a pole or post as approved by the City and shall be installed by Customer at his/her expense.
Underground Service Requirements for Multi-Family Dwelling Units.
General. Service lateral conduits from the City's point of secondary service shall be 3 inch minimum for multi-family dwelling units. A load calculation study shall be performed for multi-family dwellings units and submitted to the Electric Division. All other residential service requirements apply.
Underground Service Requirements for Commercial & Industrial Applications.
General. Service entrance conductors & conduits shall be sized according to applicable NEC, NESC codes. The City shall approve all locations & installations of conduits, service disconnection means, and meters.
All commercial & industrial buildings shall have an accessible, exterior main disconnecting means that is capable of disconnecting (opening) all service entrance conductors from the building or structure premises wiring.
All services rated 801 amps or more supplied by a 4-wire three phase 277/480 volt wye connected system shall have a ground fault test performed for protection of equipment.
All services, equipment, cabinets, conduits, etc. shall be grounded & bonded according to applicable NEC & City codes.
The service disconnecting means shall be identified as suitable for use as service equipment.
A building or structure may only be served by one service lateral or service drop, unless otherwise approved by the Electric Division.
There shall not be more than 6 service disconnects for each service. Each service disconnect shall be permanently marked to identify it as part of the service disconnecting means. All service disconnecting means for each service shall be grouped together.
The center of the operating handle of switch or breaker, when in its highest position, shall not be more than 6 ft. 7 in. above finished grade.
Materials. Only electrical grade & listed materials shall be used. Rigid metal conduits (RMC) shall be used for any elbows or bends 45 or greater. RMC shall be coated with an anti-corrosion tape below grade and tape shall extend 6" above finished grade. RMC shall be used for all above grade service entrance conduits. Customer shall provide service wire from building to utility transformer or pole. All electrical equipment, cabinets, panels, etc. shall be listed and approved for the installation.
Trenching. Service lateral trenches shall be 4' in depth. Trenches shall be as straight as possible from the secondary service point to the Customer disconnect or meter base. The bottom of the trench shall be as level as possible and free from large rocks & debris.
Service Entrance Conduits Support and Attachments. Service Entrance conduits shall be securely attached to the foundation of building by means of unistrut concrete anchors, unistrut type clamps or other approved methods. Unistrut shall be securely attached to the foundation by a minimum 3/8" x 3" concrete anchors. Service entrance conduits shall be one continuous, unbroken conduit from the elbow to the point of attachment at the meter base, ct cabinet, or main disconnect cabinet. Service lateral conduits shall be installed at a depth of 4 feet to top of conduits. All installations shall be installed in a neat and workman-like manner.
Locations. Locations of service lateral conduits shall be approved by the City Engineer. Locations of outside main disconnecting equipment shall be approved by the City Engineer. Meter/main disconnect shall be accessible at all times. Meter/main disconnect shall be kept a minimum of 36" away from any natural gas meters, window wells, windows, doors, stairs and any material deemed to be combustible. Meter/main disconnect shall meet any and all applicable NEC, NESC codes. The City Engineer reserves the right to accept or reject any locations of meter base main disconnects. If the City Engineer determines the service location is inaccessible or otherwise unsafe, the Customer shall relocate or upgrade service to City standards. The City Engineer further reserves the right to disconnect electrical power to the Customer's service until the service is brought into compliance.
Ownership of Conductors. For commercial underground installations the secondary service conductors shall be owned & maintained by the Customer from the secondary connections inside the transformer up to the termination point of the service disconnect. For commercial overhead installations the secondary service conductors shall be owned & maintained up to the overhead secondary connection point. City shall own the overhead drop up to the connections at the service mast.
Energizing Development.
Developments may be energized when the following is completed and accepted by the City.
Curb, gutter and an all-weather road surface.
Electric conduit.
Electrical boxes and proper access to the boxes.
Secondary wiring, except that required for street lighting.

4.39.70.070 Metering
General. The City will furnish and install all electric revenue meters. Normally outdoor socket-mounted meters will be used by the City whenever practical. The meter base will be furnished and installed by Customer's electrical contractor for all normal residential installations. The meter base with test switch shall be provided by the City and installed by Customer's electrical contractor for commercial or industrial applications. 

If instrument transformers are required, the City reserves the right to require customers to furnish and install a suitable steel cabinet to house City's instrument transformers and accessories. Said cabinet shall contain only the City's metering equipment and shall be equipped so that it can be sealed and locked by the City. The City shall have sole access to this cabinet.


Location. The City shall approve the location of service entrance and meter. The following conditions must be met for the location of all meters & services:

Visibility. All entrance wiring connections shall not be concealed and shall always be in plain view for inspection by the City.
Residential properties shall have the point of service externally installed on the primary residence of the property. If a residential property is needing multiple services the amount of services must be approved by the City and be contained in one location inside one meter base that is located on the exterior of the primary residence. 
Industrial/Commercial businesses are allowed to have up to two points of service with multiple meters at each location. If more than two points of service are required due to the original design of the property or the property is expanded then the campus will be required to install a primary metering cabinet. Electrical service to the property will be delivered at the City's distribution voltage. The location of the primary metering cabinet will be determined by the City. The City will maintain ownership and control of the metering cabinet but all conductors feeding out of the metering cabinet will be owned and maintained by the property owner. 
A property that is undergoing renovation and has pulled a building permit or new construction will be required to relocate the electrical meter and main disconnect point (MDP) of the building to the outside of the building. The metering equipment and MDP shall be mounted to the building if under 801 amps. If service is 801 amps or greater than a freestanding MDP switchgear cabinet will be required. The MDP switchgear cabinet will need to be approved by the Power & Light Department before equipment order is placed by the contractor.
Protection. No meter or service equipment shall be installed in any location where it may be unnecessarily exposed to heat, cold, dampness or other cause of damage, or in any unduly dirty or inaccessible location.
Height. The meter socket shall be mounted at a height of not less than 4 1/2 feet, no more than 6 feet above finished grade, as the case may be. Where multiple meters are installed, care shall be taken to ensure the lowest meter is no less than 4 1/2 ' and no higher than 6' from finished grade.
When a combination 3 phase and 1 phase service is supplied to the same premises, all meters and service entrance switches shall be at the same location.


Meter Base. Residential meter bases shall be furnished and installed by the Contractor according to City standard drawings. No smaller than a 100 amp service entrance will be accepted other than by approval from the Electrical Superintendent. The meter base shall be kept sealed and under the control of the City at all times.


Commercial Meters. Single-phase and three-phase self-contained meter bases shall be installed by the Developer, and shall have bypass capability in the meter base. For details and specific information regarding this requirement, please contact the Electric Metering Office. For services rated 200 amps up to 800 amps, the Electric Division will supply the meter base & test switch for contractor to install. No smaller than a 200 amp 3 phase service entrance will be accepted unless otherwise approved by the Electrical Superintendent. For services rated over 800 amps, contact Electric Division.

The Contractor's portion shall be completely installed, inspected, and the electrical hook-up fee paid before the City will complete the final electrical hookup.


Location of Multiple Meters. Where more than one meter is required for a building, such as an apartment house, all of the meter sockets shall be located side by side at an outside location as determined by the City Engineer.


Meter Location Regarding Remodeling. When remodeling, where 2 or more houses or dwelling units are combined to form one building, the meter socket shall be moved to a single location. Meter and service location shall first be approved by the Electric Division. Existing meters and services may require relocation to meet current City standards. In all remodeling where the meter is changed or moved, or wiring changes made, outdoor meter sockets and an approved new service entrance shall be installed by Customer at Customer's expense.


Meter Accessibility. In the event a structural change is made by the owner that results, in the opinion of the City Engineer, to be an undesirable meter location, the meter socket, meter cabinet, and/or service entrance installation shall be moved by the Customer at his/her expense to an accessible location as determined by the City.

Whenever the construction of a building on an adjacent lot prevents proper access to any meter, or access to the point of attachment of service drop conductors, or results in inadequate service drop clearance, the Customer shall move, at Customer's expense, the meter socket and service entrance to a location that is acceptable to City. The meter shall not be enclosed by any portion of a building. The meter shall not be placed under carports or enclosed by sheds, garages, outbuildings or other buildings. The meter shall remain readily accessible to the City at all times.


Outdoor Meters for Non-Residential General Service. All single phase meters installed for Non-residential use shall be socket type. The meter base shall have bypass links installed. The meter socket shall be furnished and installed by Customer at Customer's expense.


Instrument Transformer for Metering. In all outdoor installations requiring current transformers, whether 1 phase or 3 phase, the Customer shall provide an approved meter loop for meter connections. The City shall furnish any instrument transformers, meter bases, or other devices required, to properly meter the Customer's electrical needs. Such instrument transformers and devices shall be installed by the City.


Current Transformer Cabinet. Any cabinets required to house said instrument transformers and accessory equipment shall be furnished and installed by Customer at Customer's expense. This requirement applies to all installations. All cabinets shall be approved by the City.

Such metering or instrument cabinets are for the exclusive use of City, and shall, at all times, be under the control of, and kept sealed by City.


Unacceptable Meter Locations

For reasons of public safety, maintenance of service equipment, and reliability of metering, meters shall not be installed in any of the following locations:

Inside any building, unless located within an acceptable meter room.
In any location not readily accessible.
Directly over any stairway, ramp or steps.
In any substation or transformer vault.
Accessible only by a trap door or in any location which may be hazardous to personnel.
On any surface subject to excessive vibration.
In or accessed through any rest, bath, shower, powder, or toilet room.
In any elevated area.
In any location not providing a clear and continuously unobstructed working space extending a minimum of three (3) feet from the face of the meter panel, and having a width to permit ready access to the complete metering installation.
In any location where moisture, fumes, or dust may interfere with the operation of the meter, or materially damage it.
In any location giving less than three feet clearance to any property line, or with less than three feet clearance to any sidewalk, alley or driveway giving access to non-residential or industrial property.
In any basement or depressed area.
Within carport or patio areas which are or can become enclosed, when served Overhead or Underground.
Mounted on SFP&L poles.
In a room containing mechanical equipment.
In any elevator shaft or hatchway.
Mounted on any trees.
In any unsanitary areas in reference to farm animals and products.
In a plenum or any portion of a return or supply air ducting system.
Areas where entry may be restricted or controlled because of medical, health, environmental or other safety-related issues.
4.39.70.080 Lighting And Signal Poles
General. The City shall provide the street light poles, fixtures & associated parts to install the street lights. The contractor is responsible for transport of the street lights from the City Public Works Department to their respective developments. Furthermore, the contractor shall be responsible for pouring the concrete bases, assembling and erecting the street lights. All street light bases shall be grouted and a rubbed finish shall be applied to the exposed base.

All local streets, minor & major collectors, and arterial streets shall have the decorative street light as shown in the standard drawings or as designed. 25-foor steel galvanized poles with a 6-foot arm, and either a 100 watt or a 250 watt equivalent LED cobra head type fixture may be used or substituted for a decorative type pole & fixture at the City's discretion. All fixture types will be of the Luminaire type with 90 degree cutoff lens.

All traffic signal poles shall be powder coated black.


Dark Sky: All street and parking lot lighting shall meet the IDA (International Dark-Sky Association) recommendation for dark sky compliance. This will require that all lighting, street light, parking lot lighting, walkway lighting, etc., can not broadcast light above 180 from the parallel ground surface. It is advised that all lighting on buildings, such as security lighting also meet this requirement.


Location. In general, street lights will be installed at all intersections except where a four way intersection has an offset of less than 100 feet from another intersection. Street lights shall be installed on the top of all traffic signal poles. Street lights for local streets will be installed with a maximum spacing of 400 feet between. All mid-block street lights shall be installed 18 inches from a property line. Collector and arterial streets shall have lights spaced at 175 feet apart on alternating sides of the street. In addition to the typical location design and layout, street light locations may also be designed by the Electrical Division. 

Commercial right of way lighting needs to be staggered 125' with a max of 250' of spacing on each side of the ROW.

Each street light will be installed so that the street light pole is centered in the planter strip or within 18 inches of the sidewalk if no planter strip exists.


Orientation. Street lights at intersections of local streets shall aim to the center of the intersection. On collector or arterial streets street lights shall be set at a 90 degree angle at regular intervals determined by the City. The bolt pattern shall be oriented on a diamond to the street.


Grounding & Bonding. A bonding wire shall be connected from the rebar "Ufer" rings in the concrete pole base to the street light pole grounding/bonding screw or termination point using NEC approved methods and a separate grounding wire will be installed from the pole to the closest secondary pedestal or transformer. The grounding conductor shall be terminated with the neutral conductor.


Wiring & Fusing. A 10 amp in-line fuse & fuse holder shall be installed in the junction box or transformer, on the 120/240 volt ungrounded conductors.

4.39.75 Communication Service
4.39.75.010 General
4.39.75.020 Materials
4.39.75.030 Installation
4.39.75.040 Services
4.39.75.050 Inside Wiring Recommendations


4.39.75.010 General
Standards and Specifications. These specifications cover the installation of the communication system being installed to provide a wide range of communication services to include high speed internet service, cable television, telephone, and metering reading for electric, water, and pressurized irrigation meters, etc. See Chapter 39.20 for improvement and design requirements, Chapter 39.25 for inspection and testing requirements, and Chapter 39.35 for earthwork and trench requirements. See standard drawings related to electrical system.


Construction Costs. The underground conduit in to provide communication service shall be paid for by the Developer or Customer. In the event a Customer or property owner requests relocation of communication facilities, the costs shall be the responsibility of the Customer.


Attaching to Existing City Facilities Prohibited. Customer shall install no wiring or attachments on poles or other equipment of City unless specifically authorized, in writing, by the City.


Unusual Service Extensions. Special and unusual service extension requirements for equipment or structures are treated as separate items and are not included in these standards.


Permits and Inspections. Service will not be established until all necessary permits have been obtained and not until Customer's wiring installation has been inspected and approved by the City. The City reserves the right to inspect wiring and to refuse service to any installation that is, in the opinion of the City, unsafe or if the operation of same may be detrimental to the service furnished to other Customers or the City.


Access to Premises. Any properly identified representative of the City shall, at all reasonable hours, have free access to and from the premises of the Customer for the purpose of inspecting Customer's on premise box (OPB) and cable installation for the purpose of repairing, testing, or removing the City's OPB or other City property.


Communication Plan Drawings. Utility shall provide communication plan drawings. Requests for any changes to these drawings can be made by contacting the Spanish Fork City Community Network (SFCN) superintendent with a proposal. Approved communication drawings must be initialed by an approved SFCN division supervisor, and signed by the SFCN superintendent in order to be valid for construction of the communication system improvements. Photo-copies of approved drawings will not be considered valid. Revisions, if needed, must also include the date the revision was approved.

4.39.75.020 Materials
Conduit. All conduit shall be electrical grade PVC conduit or orange SDR 11 HDPE pipe meeting ASTM-3035 specifications unless otherwise specified in these standards or by the City Engineer. Rigid metal conduit (RMC) or fiberglass (FG) conduit shall be used under collector and arterial streets. Rigid metal conduits shall be coated with a 2" anti-corrosion tape below grade. Tape shall extend 6" above finished grade. Fiberglass sweeps shall not be used on riser poles.

At no time shall the pipe be deformed to make any bend. The minimum radius for any bend or sweep in the conduit shall be 36 inches. When sweeps are required, they shall be rigid metal or fiberglass. The total number of bends in any conduit run shall not exceed 360 degrees.


Enclosures. All enclosures shall be level and set according to utilities construction standards. If ground sleeves or pads settle, Developer shall be required to re-level to the above specifications. Ground rods shall be installed in SFCN boxes as called out on the communication design plans. Ground rods shall be 5/8 inch by 8 foot copper clad. The City will provide the SFCN boxes for the developer to install.

4.39.75.030 Installation
General. Contractor shall construct all communication facilities in a development except for the following which shall be completed by the Utility:

Pulling underground or overhead cable;
Installing communication cable terminations;
Setting of large communications pedestals which house Nodes, and Fiber Optic Equipment;
Installing communication connections and terminations;
All overhead facilities, including extension of risers as shown in the standard drawings.

Underground Lines. All new facilities shall be constructed underground unless otherwise authorized by the City. No overhead communication lines will be allowed unless required by the Utility.


Depth. Conduit depth shall be a minimum of 24 inches to top of pipe. When installed with electric conduit it shall be installed 6 to 12 inches above electric conduit.


Tracer Wire and Pull Strings. A 12 gauge solid THWN tracer wire shall be installed with all stubbed conduits according to standard drawings. Wire shall be pulled tight along the pipe. All fiber and main communication conduits shall have a pull string in the conduit securely tied off in each pad or enclosure. 


Caution Tape and Stub Markers. All conduits shall have a 3 inch identification tape attached to each conduit and a 6 inch tape buried 12 inches below grade above the conduit. Tape shall read "Caution - SFCN Fiber Optics Buried Below" or "Caution - SFCN CATV Buried Below" as applicable. The end of each stubbed conduit, including service laterals, shall be marked to the surface according to the standard drawings.


Underground Metal Conduit. All buried metal conduit shall be coated with 2" corrosion protective tape. Tape shall extend 6" above finished grade.


Labels. An imprinted, plastic label shall be securely taped to the end of each conduit run. The label shall indicate whether the conduit run is fiber or coax. The label shall also include the address of where the run ends. 

4.39.75.040 Services
Point of Service. The City Engineer will determine the point of delivery for all developments. The City Engineer will decide if multiple buildings, business and residential, or portions of buildings will be serviced using single or multiple distribution unit (MDU) enclosures.


Underground Service Requirements. Customer shall install all conduit from the building to the pole or pedestal according to the City standards.


Residential. One 1 inch PVC or equivalent conduit without 90's shall be run from the communication room (mechanical room) out to within 2 feet of the power meter for shared use of Fiber Optic Installation.


Commercial. One 2 inch PVC or fiberglass conduit shall be run from each units d-mark location inside the building directly into the City's communication pedestal as per approved electrical/communication design. All conduit passing through concrete without a window around them shall be a rigid conduit.

4.39.75.050 Inside Wiring Recommendations
General. The following information is for information purposes only, but provides wiring information adequate to facilitate either Comcast or SFCN communication services inside the home. 


Coax wire and fittings. Only use RG-6 coax cable. The following are recommended specifications for a home communication panel.

Coax Wire. Only use RG-6 coax cable.
Center Conductor. Center conductor should be copper covered steel center.
Dielectric Insulation. Dielectric insulation should be flame retardant polyethylene with a low dissipation factor of 0.00015, a low dielectric constant of 2.3, and foam velocity of 75 ohm and manufactured using micro cell technology for greater strength, to resist deformation, and to prevent moisture ingress.
Shielding. Shielding should consist of a foil layer which is to be bonded to the insulation with a wire shielding of 60% braid coverage on the outside of the foil shielding. The material for both the braid and the foil should be all aluminum.
Non-Plenum Jacket. Non-plenum jacket should be PVC material, and rated for general indoor use, and must meet NEC article 820 for flame 5 retardant protection. 
Crimp Fittings. Crimp fittings should incorporate a 360 degree compression type crimp.
Splitters. Splitters should be 1GHz or broader.

Home Communications Panel. The following are recommended specifications for a home communication panel.

Mounting. The minimum necessary for a communications center would be a simple 2'X2' piece of 1/2" ply wood securely attached to the wall in the basement, although manufactured panels are available for a more professional, and finished look. The manufacture panels would be a good choice in a finished closet, in a furnace room, or in other visible areas.

Location. The location of the communication center should be readily accessible, either in the furnace or utility room, or under the stairs, in a closet, or other similar area. The consumer will need access to this panel in order to reset their cable modem, network hub, or pre-amp for their cable TV where applicable. 

Electrical Outlet. A standard electrical outlet would need to be adjacent to the communications center to power the cable modem, network hub, or pre-amp when multiple computers or televisions are used.

Wiring. Two RG-6 wires should run from the On Premise Box (OPB) to the home communications panel for the internet and cable hookup. An RG-6 wire should be run from the panel to each cable television outlet. A CAT5 cable should be run from the panel to each internet access outlet. See standard drawings. It is also recommended that telephone wiring be run out of the panel as well.

Conduit. One 1 inch PVC or equivalent conduit should be run form OPB to the Home Communication Panel for Fiber Optic Installation. FTTH.


4.39.90 Landscaping
4.39.90.010 General
4.39.90.020 Lawns And Grasses
4.39.90.030 Ground Cover
4.39.90.040 Trees


4.39.90.010 General
Specifications. These specifications are for landscape work completed on public property or private property that will become public property.


Appurtenances. Any minor items of labor or materials not specifically noted on the drawings or specifications; but obviously necessary for the proper completion of the work, are to be considered as incidental to and are to be included in the contract.


As-Built Drawings. The contractor must furnish as-build drawings to the City. These drawings should be updated whenever a change from the design is made to assure accuracy. The drawings must show a record of all departures from the contract drawings that occur during construction. These shall be kept on a clean set of prints of the contract drawings. 

The Project Manager/Owner will review the "as-built drawings" to verify that changes are being recorded as construction occurs. These drawings and maintenance manuals must be submitted at the time of final inspection or in accordance to the general conditions.


Government Regulations. Ship landscape materials with certificates of inspection as required by governmental authorities. Comply with governing regulations applicable to landscape materials.


Source. Provide trees and shrubs, and other plants grown in a recognized nursery in accordance with good horticultural practice. Provide healthy, vigorous stock grown under climatic conditions similar to the locality of the project and free of disease, insects, eggs, larvae, and defects such as knots, sun-scale, injuries, abrasions, or disagreement.

Plant Materials and other landscape items will be evaluated according to compliance with drawings, schedules, and specifications; as well as overall aesthetic quality, grower or supplier reputation, physical inspection, and American Association of Nurseryman Standards (AANS). Select plants that will not be adversely affected by the existing soil chemistry at the planting location.

The source or supplier for all plant materials shall be furnished to the City prior to the delivery of any plant materials on site or stored elsewhere.


Fences and Walls. All fences and walls except those for individual single family lots must be approved by the City. Chain link and field wire fencing shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 31 13 (Chain Link Fences and Gates) and APWA 32 31 16 (Welded Wire Fences and Gates) respectively. The relocation of fences and gates shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 01 10 (Relocate Fences and Gates) and related sections.

Walls shall be stained on both sides with a base coat and at least 3 other colors. The wall shall be constructed according to a design stamped by a licensed professional civil engineer and City construction standards. Base color shall be smokey beige from Sherwin Williams, or approved equivalent. Wrought iron fencing shall be made of 1" square x 14 Ga. tubing.



                                             Manufacturer: Olympus Precast
                                           Style: Durango with Wrought Iron



                                           Manufacturer: Olympus Precast
                                                        Style: Durango



                                               Manufacturer: Olympus Precast
                                                          Style: Ledge Stone



                                                Manufacturer: Rhinorock
                                                     Style: Ledgestone
                              Installation: 600 W Center St, Spanish Fork, UT



                                           Manufacturer: Olympus Precast
                                                          Style: Ashlar



                                             Manufacturer: Ameristar Fence Products
                                                 Style: Montage II Invincible Panels
                                        Installation: 3075 N Main St, Spanish Fork, UT


Tree Grates. Only 4 foot square D&L O-8644 or approved equivalent grates shall be used. Grates shall be set to grade with the top back of curb and sidewalk. Grates shall be set in metal frame manufactured specifically for grate. Frame shall be set in concrete extending a minimum of 6 inches from sides of frame. Concrete shall be installed to City standards for Portland Cement Concrete.


Vegetation Control. Vegetation control shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 31 31 19 (Vegetation Control).

4.39.90.020 Lawns And Grasses
General. Lawns and grasses shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 92 00 (Turf and Grasses).


Grading. Till soil to a depth of 4 inches and remove rocks and debris over 1 inch in diameter. The elevation of top soil relative to walks, hard surfaces or edges shall be:

Seeded Areas. 1/2 inches below.
Sodded Areas. 1 1/2 inches below.
4.39.90.030 Ground Cover
General. Ground cover shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 93 13 (Ground Cover) and APWA 32 01 90 (Plant Maintenance).


Fabric. 5 oz. woven, needle punched, polypropylene fabric designed for professional and commercial use. Fabric shall be installed in all planter beds. Cover fabric with 3" minimum of bark mulch or rock mulch.

4.39.90.040 Trees
General. Tree and work relating to trees shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 93 43 (Tree), APWA 32 01 91 (Tree Root Cutting), APWA 32 01 93 (Pruning Trees) and 32 01 90 (Plant Maintenance). Install per standard G-112. Trees may be planted without a certified arborist when authorized by the City Engineer.


Tree Sizes. City ordinance specifies deciduous trees to be at least 2 inch caliper and evergreen trees to be at least 8 by 10 feet in height. Plants of a larger size may be used pending approval by the City Engineer. Sizes of root balls or containers shall be increased proportionately.


Labels. Label at least one plant of each variety with a securely attached waterproof tag bearing legible designation of botanical and common name. 


Topsoil. Topsoil shall meet APWA standards 31 05 13. A minimum of 4" of topsoil shall be placed in grass areas and 12" in planters. Native soil shall be scarified 6" deep and graded before topsoil is placed.

4.39.95 Irrigation Sprinkler Systems
4.39.95.010 General
4.39.95.020 Pipe And Fittings
4.39.95.030 Sprinkler Heads
4.39.95.040 Controller, Valves And Flow Meters
4.39.95.050 Installation


4.39.95.010 General
Specifications. These specifications are for landscape work completed on private property that will become pubic property. All underground irrigation systems shall meet the requirements and specifications of APWA 32 84 23 (Underground Irrigation Systems).


Appurtenances. Any minor items of labor or materials not specifically noted on the drawings or specifications; but obviously necessary for the proper completion of the work, are to be considered as incidental to and are to be included in the contract.


Pressure Verification. The Contractor, prior to installing the system, must verify existing water pressure. If there is a failure to obtain the needed pressure or if an excess of pressure exists for normal operation, the Contractor shall contact the City for any adjustments to the system. Failure to report any discrepancies in pressure due to whatever reason, and installation done prior to notification of City Parks Department shall be done at the expense of the Contractor.


Plan Modifications. The plans show the general arrangement of all piping. Should local conditions necessitate the rearrangement of some, or if piping can be run to better advantage, the contractor, before proceeding with the work, shall prepare and submit drawings of such to the office of the Spanish Fork City Parks Department Representative and obtain written approval before commencing work shown by these drawings.


As-Built Survey. The Contractor shall notify the City to survey all underground utilities such as sprinkler pipes, wires and valves either installed or uncovered in the course of construction. Contractor shall give the City 24-hour notice to survey utilities.


Final Inspection. The Contractor shall operate, maintain, and guarantee the irrigation sprinkler system until all landscaping on the project is approved by the City Parks Department at a final inspection. Contractor shall submit manufacturer's technical product maintenance data and installation instructions for irrigation sprinkler system materials and products to the City before final inspection.


Inspections. All work shall be inspected by the Assistant Director - Parks and Open spaces or designee. All inspections shall be done by appointment only with a minimum 24-hour notice. Items buried without City approval shall be re-excavated by the permittee at no additional cost to the City.

4.39.95.020 Pipe And Fittings
Pipe. Use solvent weld schedule 40 PVC for main line pipe 3 inches in diameter and smaller. Use Class 200 PVC for main line pipe larger than 3 inches in diameter.


Main Line Fittings. Use solvent weld schedule 40 PVC fittings for pipe smaller than 3 inches in diameter. All fittings for pipe 3 inch and larger pipe shall be ductile iron, grade 65-45-12 in accordance with ASTM A-536.

Fittings shall have deep bell push on joints with gaskets meeting ASTM F977. Fittings shall be Harco Deep Bell as manufactured by the Hanington Corporation of Lynchburg, VA or approved equivalent. Transition gaskets are not allowed.


Circuit Pipe Fittings. Use solvent weld schedule 40 PVC fittings.

Sleeves. Pipe and control wiring and tubing under walks, roads and other hard surfaces shall be installed in solvent weld Class 40 PVC sleeves of adequate size. Sleeves for pipes shall be a minimum of 3 inches in diameter or one and a half times the size of the pipes, whichever is greater. Sleeves shall be straight and level or less than 2% grade. All wiring shall be placed in its own conduit. Wire conduit may be ran inside of sprinkler pipe sleeves. Conduit for control wires shall have minimum inside diameters according to the following chart:


Minimum Sleeve Conduit Sizes
Number of Wires	Conduit I.D.
1 to 7	1 inch
8 to 11	1 1/2 inch
12 to 22	2 inch
23 to 31	2 1/2 inch
32 to 36	3 inch



4.39.95.030 Sprinkler Heads
General. Install according to APWA plan number 621 and 622, but do not install PVC elbow and riser.


Spray Heads. All spray type sprinkler heads shall be Rainbird "1800" series PRS 30 or approved equivalent. Minimum height of a sprinkler head in the lawn shall be 4" and 12" in shrub and flower beds. All spray heads shall be installed on swing pipe with two spiral barbed ells and one street ell between the sprinkler head and the spiral barb. Hunter MP 1000 rotators, MPCSS530, MP Corner or equivalents are not allowed. MP rotators or equivalents (that are allowed MP 2000, MP300) must be installed in a Hunter Pro-spray PRS 40 sprinkler body or equivalent.


Rotary Heads. All rotary type sprinkler heads shall be Hunter "I" series or approved equivalent. All stream rotary and impact heads capable of distributing more than 6 gallons per minute or more shall be installed on a pre-assembled swing joint by Spears or an approved equivalent.


Filter. Amiad T Filter with a Brushaway assembly or approved equivalent. The filter should be the same size as the mainline pipe. The Filter shall be enclosed with a lockable wire mesh enclosure. Filters 3" and larger should be the Amiad Mini Sigma automatic filter or approved equivalent. Automatic filters shall be enclosed in a stainless steel enclosure.

4.39.95.040 Controller, Valves And Flow Meters
Controller. Controller and pedestal shall be the same type as those used in the City central control system. The controller shall be as described in the irrigation legend on the drawings.


Manual Main Line Isolation Valve. See standard drawing for pressure pipe main line valves.


Manual Circuit Isolation Valve. Brass ball valve with handle.


Automatic Valves. Automatic valves shall be Rainbird PEB electric remote control valves or an approved equivalent. A manual circuit isolation valve shall be installed on the supply side of each automatic valve. Install according to APWA plan number 633, but do not install schedule 80 PVC union. For valves 1.5" and larger allow only one valve per box. 1" valves; 2 valves per standard box or 3 valves per jumbo box.


Master Valves and Flow Meters. Master valves and flow meters must be installed on main supply line and/or according to design and must be compatible with the Calsense central control system or be compatible with other approved controllers.


Automatic Drain Valves. Install according to APWA plan number 632.


Back Flow Preventer. Shall be required on connections to the drinking water system. Install according to APWA standard plan number 631.1 and 631.2.


Stop and Waste Valves. Stop and waste valves shall be Mueller H - 10288N Oraseal or an approved equivalent. Stop and Waste valve shall be of manual type for operation by handle key.


Quick Coupler Valves. Quick coupler valves shall be installed with brass riser and pre-manufactured swing joint. At least 2 quick coupler valves shall be installed, one at each end of main line. Valves shall be 1 inch standard. Rain Bird model 44LRC or approved equivalent. Must provide one quick coupler key that fits the specified model.


Valve Boxes. Must be Oldcastle plastic valve boxes, model numbers VB 910, VB 1419, and/or VB 1220 or approved equivalents. Valves shall be located in lawn or planted areas. Avoid locating valves in areas of high pedestrian and vehicular circulation. Valve boxes shall be at finished grade with valve stems 4 inches minimum and 12 inches maximum below top of box and with 3 inches of pea gravel or 3/4 inch minus crushed gravel under the valve. Valve boxes shall be rectangular, heavy duty and green in color. Valve boxes for automatic valves shall be large enough to enclose manual circuit isolation valve and automatic valve. 


Control Wire. Install wire according to APWA plan number 651. Add two extra blue control wires per controller to the longest run for emergency use and mark it in the control box as an extra wire. 

4.39.95.050 Installation
Schedule. Contractor shall submit a construction schedule of anticipated work time to facilitate timely visits for review of work. Schedule must be submitted to the City before any landscaping may begin. 


Depth and Location. Lines bordering curbs or sidewalks shall be 6 inches away to allow for maintenance and access to the lines. Control wires must be buried at least 12 inches below finished grade and bundled with a plastic tape every 10 feet.


Trench Backfill Material. All trenches shall be backfilled in 12 inch lifts and tamped sufficiently to insure no settling of the surface. No rocks larger than 1 inch shall be allowed within 3 inches of the pipe. The Contractor, in placing the irrigation lines, and appurtenances, may uncover material not suitable for finished grading. This material shall be removed from the site. After the installation of the lines, the finished grading shall be smoothed over and restored to its original condition, using additional topsoil where necessary.


Thrust Blocks. All mainlines greater than 2 inches in size shall be installed with thrust blocks wherever a change of direction occurs. Thrust blocks shall be installed per city standards. Joint restraint can be used instead of thrust clocks if approved by city.


Flushing. When the pipelines are connected and the sprinkler risers in places but before any heads are installed, the control valves shall be opened and flushed with a full head of water to clean out the system.
